WINNIE THE POOH 


 A.A. Milne 


CHAPTER I IN WHICH WE ARE INTRODUCED TO WINNIE-THE-POOH AND SOME BEES, AND THE STORIES BEGIN 

"What _do_ I do?"  

"Yes" Edward Bear, coming downstairs now, bump, bump, bump, on the back of his head, behind Christopher Robin. It is, as far as he knows, the only way of coming downstairs, but sometimes he feels that there really is another way, if only he could stop bumping for a moment and think of it. And then he feels that perhaps there isn't. Anyhow, here he is at the bottom, and ready to be introduced to you. Winnie-the-Pooh. When I first heard his name, I said, just as you are going to say,  "and I knew if wasn't _me_,"  "Oh, Pooh! Do you think it's a--a--a Woozle?" said Christopher Robin.  "Are you all right, Roo, dear?"  "Yes, it is, isn't it?"  "because of calling it a pole, and if it's a pole, well, I should think it would be sticking in the ground, shouldn't you, because there'd be nowhere else to stick it."  "Could you very sweetly tell Winnie-the-Pooh one?"  "How?" I said quickly; and I hope you do too, because it is all the explanation you are going to get. Sometimes Winnie-the-Pooh likes a game of some sort when he comes downstairs, and sometimes he likes to sit quietly in front of the fire and listen to a story. This evening----  "Well, if you listen, Piglet, you'll hear it." said Christopher Robin.  "Good morning, Owl," I said.  

"We are not _talking_ about gorse-bushes,"  "If you see what I mean, Pooh," I said.  "_Pop!_"  "Good-bye, Pooh."  "Why?"  "That's a good idea,"  "Well, that's funny," I said. So I tried. * * * * * Once upon a time, a very long time ago now, about last Friday, Winnie-the-Pooh lived in a forest all by himself under the name of Sanders. (_"What does 'under the name' mean?" asked Christopher Robin._  "Perhaps it would be better," _"Winnie-the-Pooh wasn't quite sure," said Christopher Robin._ _"Now I am," said a growly voice._ _"Then I will go on," said I._) One day when he was out walking, he came to an open place in the middle of the forest, and in the middle of this place was a large oak-tree, and, from the top of the tree, there came a loud buzzing-noise. Winnie-the-Pooh sat down at the foot of the tree, put his head between his paws and began to think. First of all he said to himself:  "Yes." Then he thought another long time, and said:  "Silly old Bear," And then he got up, and said:  

"Hallo, Owl!"--and Owl said "Hallo, my little fellow," So he began to climb the tree. He climbed and he climbed and he climbed, and as he climbed he sang a little song to himself. It went like this: Isn't it funny How a bear likes honey? Buzz! Buzz! Buzz! I wonder why he does? Then he climbed a little further . . . and a little further . . . and then just a little further. By that time he had thought of another song. It's a very funny thought that, if Bears were Bees, They'd build their nests at the _bottom_ of trees. And that being so (if the Bees were Bears), We shouldn't have to climb up all these stairs. He was getting rather tired by this time, so that is why he sang a Complaining Song. He was nearly there now, and if he just stood on that branch . . . _Crack!_  "Pooh couldn't, because he hasn't any brain. Did _I_ catch it?" said Pooh, as he dropped ten feet on the branch below him.  "there's your medicine, and then bed." he said, as he bounced twenty feet on to the next branch.  "First verse of what?" he explained, as he turned head-over-heels, and crashed on to another branch thirty feet below,  "Eeyore,"  "Didn't you see them?" he admitted, as he slithered very quickly through the next six branches.  "Red." he decided, as he said good-bye to the last branch, spun round three times, and flew gracefully into a gorse-bush,  "Use his front door again?" He crawled out of the gorse-bush, brushed the prickles from his nose, and began to think again. And the first person he thought of was Christopher Robin. (_"Was that me?" said Christopher Robin in an awed voice, hardly daring to believe it._  "Roo, dear, just one more jump and then we must go home." _Christopher Robin said nothing, but his eyes got larger and larger, and his face got pinker and pinker._) So Winnie-the-Pooh went round to his friend Christopher Robin, who lived behind a green door in another part of the forest.  "--not like a small black cloud in a blue sky?" he said.  

"No," said you.  "And we meet at six o'clock to-morrow morning by the Pine Trees, and see how many Heffalumps we've got in our Trap."  "Not very how,"  "_Now!_"  "Must you?" you said. Winnie-the-Pooh looked round to see that nobody was listening, put his paw to his mouth, and said in a deep whisper:  "Well, thank him for me when you see him."  "I believe my Balloon will just go into that Pot!"  "I can hear it, can't you?" said Pooh. Well, it just happened that you had been to a party the day before at the house of your friend Piglet, and you had balloons at the party. You had had a big green balloon; and one of Rabbit's relations had had a big blue one, and had left it behind, being really too young to go to a party at all; and so you had brought the green one _and_ the blue one home with you.  "_I_ make it fifteen." you asked Pooh. He put his head between his paws and thought very carefully.  "Lucky I brought this with me," he said.  

"Hunting,"  "You seem so sad, Eeyore." you asked.  "Pooh," said Winnie-the-Pooh.  "It isn't as easy as I thought. I suppose that's why Heffalumps hardly _ever_ get caught." He thought for a moment and said:  "You can keep _anything_ in it,"  "Are you sure?" you said; and so it was decided. Well, you both went out with the blue balloon, and you took your gun with you, just in case, as you always did, and Winnie-the-Pooh went to a very muddy place that he knew of, and rolled and rolled until he was black all over; and then, when the balloon was blown up as big as big, and you and Pooh were both holding on to the string, you let go suddenly, and Pooh Bear floated gracefully up into the sky, and stayed there--level with the top of the tree and about twenty feet away from it.  "It don't do them any Good, you know, sitting on them," you shouted.  "And I say, old fellow, you're taking up a good deal of room in my house--_do_ you mind if I use your back legs as a towel-horse? Because, I mean, there they are--doing nothing--and it would be very convenient just to hang the towels on them." shouted Winnie-the-Pooh down to you.  "No."  "They didn't catch it, did they?" you said.  

"Meaning me again?" said Pooh anxiously,  "Did I?"  "I think the bees _suspect_ something!"  "Ah!" There was no wind to blow him nearer to the tree, so there he stayed. He could see the honey, he could smell the honey, but he couldn't quite reach the honey. After a little while he called down to you.  "_I_ think----" he said in a loud whisper.  "So there you are."  "Now,"  "a Heff--a Heff--a Heffalump."  "There's a lot of water about,"  "Oo, I say"  

"Yes," There was another little silence, and then he called down to you again.  "Oh, I see,"  "Not,"  "but I can't think what. Where did you get it?"  "We might go in your umbrella,"  "Just resting and thinking and humming to myself." Well, you laughed to yourself,  "Pooh, did you see me swimming? That's called swimming, what I was doing. Rabbit, did you see what I was doing? Swimming. Hallo, Piglet! I say, Piglet! What do you think I was doing! Swimming! Christopher Robin, did you see me----" but you didn't say it aloud because you were so fond of him, and you went home for your umbrella.  "All right, then, I'll give him a balloon. I've got one left from my party. I'll go and get it now, shall I?" called down Winnie-the-Pooh, as soon as you got back to the tree.  "We say '_Aha!_' so that Kanga knows that _we_ know where Baby Roo is. '_Aha!_' means 'We'll tell you where Baby Roo is, if you promise to go away from the Forest and never come back.' Now don't talk while I think."  "That makes it smaller still. Oh, Pooh Bear, what shall we do?" you said.  

"It all comes,"  "What's Eeyore talking about?"  "I shall have to wait until I catch up with it," So, while you walked up and down and wondered if it would rain, Winnie-the-Pooh sang this song: How sweet to be a Cloud Floating in the Blue! Every little cloud _Always_ sings aloud.  "Coming to see me have my bath?" It makes him very proud To be a little cloud. The bees were still buzzing as suspiciously as ever. Some of them, indeed, left their nests and flew all round the cloud as it began the second verse of this song, and one bee sat down on the nose of the cloud for a moment, and then got up again.  "Oh, I see," called out the cloud.  "On whether I'm on the top of it or underneath it."  "_Honey!_"  "Inasmuch as which?"--and sometimes he didn't quite know what he _was_ thinking about. So when Winnie-the-Pooh came stumping along, Eeyore was very glad to be able to stop thinking for a little, in order to say "How do you do?"  "And if anyone knows anything about anything,"  "is that it's unsettling. I didn't want to come on this Expo--what Pooh said. I only came to oblige. But here I am; and if I am the end of the Expo--what we're talking about--then let me _be_ the end. But if, every time I want to sit down for a little rest, I have to brush away half a dozen of Rabbit's smaller friends-and-relations first, then this isn't an Expo--whatever it is--at all, it's simply a Confused Noise. That's what _I_ say."  

"Good afternoon,"  "And what did happen?" asked you. Winnie-the-Pooh hadn't thought about this. If he let go of the string, he would fall--_bump_--and he didn't like the idea of that. So he thought for a long time, and then he said:  "It all comes of trying to be kind to Heffalumps."  "Yes, Eeyore," you said.  "Perhaps it was somebody else." you said.  "Now then." said Pooh,  "Oh, Pooh!" When he put it like this, you saw how it was, and you aimed very carefully at the balloon, and fired.  "Oh! . . . I _think_ Heffalumps come if you whistle." said Pooh.  "Hush!" you asked.  "I say, I wonder what's going to happen exciting _to-day_?" said Pooh,  

"I am _not_ Roo,"  "You must have left it somewhere," you said, and you fired again, and this time you hit the balloon, and the air came slowly out, and Winnie-the-Pooh floated down to the ground. But his arms were so stiff from holding on to the string of the balloon all that time that they stayed up straight in the air for more than a week, and whenever a fly came and settled on his nose he had to blow it off. And I think--but I am not sure--that _that_ is why he was always called Pooh. * * * * *  "That's just it. How?" asked Christopher Robin.  "That was it."  "Christopher Robin is giving a party."  "An Ambush, as I was about to explain to Pooh,"  "I've been wondering about him. I expect Piglet's with him. Do you think they're all right, Owl?"  "Bother!"  "because of getting thin quicker. But we _will_ read to you."  "Oh, Bear!"  

"And Owl,"  "He's Winnie-ther-Pooh. Don't you know what '_ther_' means?" Christopher Robin nodded.  "I suppose _I_ shan't be useful?" he said,  "because it makes different marks. It is either Two Woozles and one, as it might be, Wizzle, or Two, as it might be, Wizzles and one, if so it is, Woozle. Let us continue to follow them."  "I say, Owl," I said. Christopher Robin gave a deep sigh, picked his Bear up by the leg, and walked off to the door, trailing Pooh behind him. At the door he turned and said,  "Oh, I see,"  "So it does!" I said.  "I suppose none of you are sitting on a thistle by any chance?"  CHAPTER II IN WHICH POOH GOES VISITING AND GETS INTO A TIGHT PLACE 

"What about them?"  "Now you're asking me." He nodded and went out, and in a moment I heard Winnie-the-Pooh--_bump, bump, bump_--going up the stairs behind him. to his friends as Winnie-the-Pooh, or Pooh for short, was walking through the forest one day, humming proudly to himself. He had made up a little hum that very morning, as he was doing his Stoutness Exercises in front of the glass: _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la_, as he stretched up as high as he could go, and then _Tra-la-la, tra-la--oh, help!--la_, as he tried to reach his toes. After breakfast he had said it over and over to himself until he had learnt it off by heart, and now he was humming it right through, properly. It went like this: _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_ _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_ _Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum._ _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_ _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_ _Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um._ Well, he was humming this hum to himself, and walking along gaily, wondering what everybody else was doing, and what it felt like, being somebody else, when suddenly he came to a sandy bank, and in the bank was a large hole.  

"_Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear._" said Pooh. (_Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum._)  "Ow!" he said,  "And I hope it won't snow," he said,  "Me having a real birthday?" So he bent down, put his head into the hole, and called out:  "I'm just saying 'A Happy Birthday'," There was a sudden scuffling noise from inside the hole, and then silence.  "All that we've brought," called out Pooh very loudly.  "Pooh does," said a voice; and then added,  "No,"  "Owl," said Pooh.  "Good-morning, Christopher Robin,"  

"what are _you_ doing?" Winnie-the-Pooh took his head out of the hole, and thought for a little, and he thought to himself,  "Are you all right, Roo dear?" So he put his head back in the hole, and said:  "Heffalumps."  "I suppose it's just practice," said Rabbit, in a different sort of voice this time.  "Good morning, Eeyore,"  "Fond of it?" said Rabbit.  "W-w-what medicine?"  "What _is_ the North Pole?" said Pooh. He took his head out of the hole, and had another think, and then he put it back, and said:  "Hallo, Eeyore!"  "Yes?"  

"Well, that comes into the story." said Bear, very much surprised.  "I thought not,"  "Splendid. Now come along."  "_What about meals?_" said Rabbit, still more surprised.  "I just wondered. . . . Red," said Pooh.  "Heff," So Pooh pushed and pushed and pushed his way through the hole, and at last he got in.  "No, it's mine." said Rabbit, looking at him all over.  "Somebody has been keeping honey in it,"  "Well,"  "I thought this was _your_ party." Pooh always liked a little something at eleven o'clock in the morning, and he was very glad to see Rabbit getting out the plates and mugs; and when Rabbit said,  

"Open it, Pooh," he was so excited that he said,  "Talking about large somethings," and then, so as not to seem greedy, he added,  "What I don't like about it is this," And for a long time after that he said nothing . . . until at last, humming to himself in a rather sticky voice, he got up, shook Rabbit lovingly by the paw, and said that he must be going on.  "What's the matter?" said Rabbit politely.  "How shall we do it?" said Pooh,  "isn't this fun? I'm on an island!" and he tried very hard to look in the direction of the larder.  "That's it," said Rabbit,  "My tail's getting cold. I don't want to mention it, but I just mention it. I don't want to complain but there it is. My tail's cold."  "Lost all feeling. Numbed it. That's what it's done. Numbed it. Well, as long as nobody minds, I suppose it's all right."  "_Aha! Aha!_ . . . Of course,"  

"What song?" asked Pooh quickly. Rabbit took the covers off the dishes, and said,  "The question is, What are we to do about Kanga?"  "where did you find that pole?" said Pooh, nodding to himself.  "you haven't any brain." So he started to climb out of the hole. He pulled with his front paws, and pushed with his back paws, and in a little while his nose was out in the open again . . . and then his ears . . . and then his front paws . . . and then his shoulders . . . and then----  "Wherefore?" said Pooh.  "So did I,"  "Pathetic," said Pooh.  "It was just the same,"  "I must go." said Pooh.  "Christopher Robin, you must shoot the balloon with your gun. Have you got your gun?" Now by this time Rabbit wanted to go for a walk too, and finding the front door full, he went out by the back door, and came round to Pooh, and looked at him.  

"Halt!" he asked.  "because I've just seen Roo playing in Rabbit's house." said Pooh carelessly.  "Yes, and I wanted to ask you----"  "Of course, Eeyore." Pooh Bear stretched out a paw, and Rabbit pulled and pulled and pulled. . . .  "Yes, I was. I thought so." cried Pooh.  "What do you want a balloon for?"  "Did you ever see such rain, Pooh?" said Rabbit,  "Here I am!"  "That's the whole question," said Pooh crossly,  "Honey or condensed milk with your bread?"  

"Where?" said Rabbit sternly,  "Let's have a look," said Rabbit,  "but I've sort of forgotten too, although I did know _once_." said Rabbit,  "I'm not asking anybody," said Rabbit,  "What do you see there?" he said.  "No. Why do you want string?" Christopher Robin lived at the other end of the Forest, and when he came back with Rabbit, and saw the front half of Pooh, he said,  "Eeyore," in such a loving voice that everybody felt quite hopeful again.  "Well, I'll tell you what _this_ says, and then you'll be able to." said Bear, sniffing slightly,  "Now then, Pooh," he said.  "I have decided to catch a Heffalump." said Rabbit.  

"Hush!" said Christopher Robin.  "If a bottle can float, then a jar can float, and if a jar floats, I can sit on the top of it, if it's a very big jar."  "Here it is. And it's got 'A Very Happy Birthday with love from Pooh' written on it. That's what all that writing is. And it's for putting things in. There!" said Rabbit.  "There!" Rabbit scratched his whiskers thoughtfully, and pointed out that, when once Pooh was pushed back, he was back, and of course nobody was more glad to see Pooh than _he_ was, still there it was, some lived in trees and some lived underground, and----  "A gorse-bush?" said Pooh.  "My dear Pooh," said Rabbit,  "Just a moment," Christopher Robin nodded.  "It's feeling more like a tail perhaps. It Belongs again, if you know what I mean." he said.  "There is an Invitation for you."  "When?" asked Pooh anxiously.  

"French word meaning bonhommy,"  "Is it a blackbird or a starling?"  "_Oh, help!_"  "Oh! Piglet," said Rabbit cheerfully.  "Oh!" he added.  "Not there?"  "Hush!" said Pooh gloomily.  "I saw a Heffalump to-day, Piglet."  "And Piglet?" said Christopher Robin,  "Why what?" Bear began to sigh, and then found he couldn't because he was so tightly stuck; and a tear rolled down his eye, as he said:  

"I have been Foolish and Deluded," So for a week Christopher Robin read that sort of book at the North end of Pooh, and Rabbit hung his washing on the South end . . . and in between Bear felt himself getting slenderer and slenderer. And at the end of the week Christopher Robin said,  "To make you grow big and strong, dear, You don't want to grow up small and weak like Piglet, do you? Well, then!" So he took hold of Pooh's front paws and Rabbit took hold of Christopher Robin, and all Rabbit's friends and relations took hold of Rabbit, and they all pulled together. . . . And for a long time Pooh only said  "Very good honey this, I don't know when I've tasted better," . . . And  "Oh!" . . . And then, all of a sudden, he said  "Do go and see, Owl. Because Pooh hasn't got very much brain, and he might do something silly, and I do love him so, Owl. Do you see, Owl?" just as if a cork were coming out of a bottle. And Christopher Robin and Rabbit and all Rabbit's friends and relations went head-over-heels backwards . . . and on the top of them came Winnie-the-Pooh--free! So, with a nod of thanks to his friends, he went on with his walk through the forest, humming proudly to himself. But, Christopher Robin looked after him lovingly, and said to himself,  CHAPTER III IN WHICH POOH AND PIGLET GO HUNTING AND NEARLY CATCH A WOOZLE 

"What _will_ he be doing next?"  "I know I had a jar of honey there. A full jar, full of honey right up to the top, and it had HUNNY written on it, so that I should know it was honey. That's very funny." in a very grand house in the middle of a beech-tree, and the beech-tree was in the middle of the forest, and the Piglet lived in the middle of the house. Next to his house was a piece of broken board which had:  "All this washing; but catch on to my tail, little Roo, and you'll be all right"; and, Christopher Robin and Rabbit came hurrying past Eeyore, and were calling out to the others in front of them. "All right, Roo, I'm coming," on it. When Christopher Robin asked the Piglet what it meant, he said it was his grandfather's name, and had been in the family for a long time, Christopher Robin said you _couldn't_ be called Trespassers W, and Piglet said yes, you could, because his grandfather was, and it was short for Trespassers Will, which was short for Trespassers William. And his grandfather had had two names in case he lost one--Trespassers after an uncle, and William after Trespassers.  "They just came. They always do. They can march at the end, after Eeyore." said Christopher Robin carelessly.  "I shall do it," said Piglet. One fine winter's day when Piglet was brushing away the snow in front of his house, he happened to look up, and there was Winnie-the-Pooh. Pooh was walking round and round in a circle, thinking of something else, and when Piglet called to him, he just went on walking.  

"So it is," said Piglet,  "Oh, I see."  "I'd better go back." said Pooh.  "If only I hadn't----"  "Yes, I just said to myself coming along: 'I wonder if Christopher Robin has such a thing as a balloon about him?' I just said it to myself, thinking of balloons, and wondering." said Winnie-the-Pooh very mysteriously.  "Well, well, I shall go and fetch Christopher Robin." said Piglet, coming closer.  "Of course he'll use his front door again."  "all--of--us, and then, suddenly, we wake up one morning and, what do we find? We find a Strange Animal among us. An animal of whom we have never even heard before! An animal who carries her family about with her in her pocket! Suppose _I_ carried _my_ family about with me in _my_ pocket, how many pockets should I want?"  "A Heffalump has been eating it!" said Winnie-the-Pooh.  "Thank-you," He pointed to the ground in front of him.  

"Now then, Roo, dear,"  "And it's to be a special sort of party, because it's because of what Pooh did when he did what he did to save Piglet from the flood." said Piglet.  "Never mind, Pooh," He gave a little squeak of excitement.  "I _think_ that I have just remembered something. I have just remembered something that I forgot to do yesterday and shan't be able to do to-morrow. So I suppose I really ought to go back and do it now."  "it all comes of _liking_ honey so much. Oh, help!" said Pooh.  "There's a notice about knocking and ringing outside my door, which Christopher Robin wrote. Could you read it?" With these few words he went on tracking, and Piglet, after watching him for a minute or two, ran after him. Winnie-the-Pooh had come to a sudden stop, and was bending over the tracks in a puzzled sort of way.  "From both of us?" asked Piglet.  "Fifteen what?" said Bear,  "_Ow!_" Piglet scratched his ear in a nice sort of way, and said that he had nothing to do until Friday, and would be delighted to come, in case it really _was_ a Woozle.  "have you ever noticed that tree right over there?" said Winnie-the-Pooh, and Piglet said that anyhow he had nothing to do until Friday. So off they went together. There was a small spinney of larch trees just here, and it seemed as if the two Woozles, if that is what they were, had been going round this spinney; so round this spinney went Pooh and Piglet after them; Piglet passing the time by telling Pooh what his Grandfather Trespassers W had done to Remove Stiffness after Tracking, and how his Grandfather Trespassers W had suffered in his later years from Shortness of Breath, and other matters of interest, and Pooh wondering what a Grandfather was like, and if perhaps this was Two Grandfathers they were after now, and, if so, whether he would be allowed to take one home and keep it, and what Christopher Robin would say. And still the tracks went on in front of them. . . . Suddenly Winnie-the-Pooh stopped, and pointed excitedly in front of him.  

"Here it is!"  "Shall I lift you in, Roo?" said Piglet, with a jump. And then, to show that he hadn't been frightened, he jumped up and down once or twice more in an exercising sort of way.  "Presents?" said Pooh.  "How long does getting thin take?"  "I can't do either!" cried Piglet.  "_That was you._"  "Here, give us a paw." said Pooh,  "Why!" So they went on, feeling just a little anxious now, in case the three animals in front of them were of Hostile Intent. And Piglet wished very much that his Grandfather T. W. were there, instead of elsewhere, and Pooh thought how nice it would be if they met Christopher Robin suddenly but quite accidentally, and only because he liked Christopher Robin so much. And then, all of a sudden, Winnie-the-Pooh stopped again, and licked the tip of his nose in a cooling manner, for he was feeling more hot and anxious than ever in his life before. _There were four animals in front of them!_  "You--you--you did it on purpose," And so it seemed to be. There were the tracks; crossing over each other here, getting muddled up with each other there; but, quite plainly every now and then, the tracks of four sets of paws.  "Oh, no, _I_ did. I forgot." said Piglet, when he had licked the tip of his nose too, and found that it brought very little comfort,  

"What about a story?"  "And--Afterwards?" said Pooh.  "The flood-level has reached an unprecedented height." said Piglet quickly.  "I could stay a little longer if it--if you----"  "Owl," said Winnie-the-Pooh, looking at the sun.  "I _think_," Pooh looked up at the sky, and then, as he heard the whistle again, he looked up into the branches of a big oak-tree, and then he saw a friend of his.  "Pooh isn't there," he said.  "So it is," said Piglet.  "Perhaps it's some relation of Pooh's," and he trotted off home as quickly as he could, very glad to be Out of All Danger again. Christopher Robin came slowly down his tree.  "Sad? Why should I be sad? It's my birthday. The happiest day of the year." he said,  

"And the only reason for being a bee that I know of is making honey."  "would be this. The best way would be to steal Baby Roo and hide him, and then when Kanga says, 'Where's Baby Roo?' we say, '_Aha!_'" said Winnie-the-Pooh, holding up his paw. He sat down and thought, in the most thoughtful way he could think. Then he fitted his paw into one of the Tracks . . . and then he scratched his nose twice, and stood up.  "Ho," said Winnie-the-Pooh.  "No," said Winnie-the-Pooh.  "H--hup!" said he,  "I might have known,"  "Yes, yes," said Christopher Robin soothingly.  "Why, what's happened to your tail?" said Pooh hopefully. And then he brightened up suddenly.  "Look at the birthday cake. Candles and pink sugar." he said,  CHAPTER IV IN WHICH EEYORE LOSES A TAIL AND POOH FINDS ONE 

"You're hurting!"  

"I," So he went home for it. by himself in a thistly corner of the forest, his front feet well apart, his head on one side, and thought about things. Sometimes he thought sadly to himself,  "Fancy!" and sometimes he thought,  "Why, what's the trouble, Piglet?" and sometimes he thought,  "Why, what's the matter?" in a gloomy manner to him.  "That buzzing-noise means something. You don't get a buzzing-noise like that, just buzzing and buzzing, without its meaning something. If there's a buzzing-noise, somebody's making a buzzing-noise, and the only reason for making a buzzing-noise that _I_ know of is because you're a bee." said Winnie-the-Pooh. Eeyore shook his head from side to side.  "that I thought of giving you a Useful Pot to put things in." he said.  "Yes. So I think I shall come down."  "Couldn't I give it too? From both of us?" said Pooh,  "What are _you_ giving him, Pooh?" So Eeyore stood there, gazing sadly at the ground, and Winnie-the-Pooh walked all round him once.  "I'm very glad," he said in surprise.  

"Hallo, Pooh," said Eeyore.  "Hush!"  "You were so busy getting his party ready for him. He had a cake with icing on the top, and three candles, and his name in pink sugar, and----"  "Pooh Bear."  "being miserable myself, what with no presents and no cake and no candles, and no proper notice taken of me at all, but if everybody else is going to be miserable too----"  "Ah, yes, now I do,"  "Many happy returns of the day," said Eeyore, and he turned slowly round to the place where his tail had been a little while ago, and then, finding that he couldn't catch it up, he turned round the other way, until he came back to where he was at first, and then he put his head down and looked between his front legs, and at last he said, with a long, sad sigh,  "Many a bear going out on a warm day like this would never have thought of bringing a little something with him."  "Well," said Pooh.  "Well, _actually_, of course, I'm saying 'A Very Happy Birthday with love from Pooh.' Naturally it takes a good deal of pencil to say a long thing like that." said Eeyore gloomily.  

"Hullo, Pooh. Thank you for asking, but I shall be able to use it again in a day or two."  "Good morning, Pooh Bear," said Winnie-the-Pooh.  "I did this yesterday," said Eeyore.  "I know," he added, after a long silence. Pooh felt that he ought to say something helpful about it, but didn't quite know what. So he decided to do something helpful instead.  "Oh!" he said solemnly,  "Yes,"  "Is that what we were looking for?" answered Eeyore.  "Do you think it is another Woozle?" said he.  "We're going to discover the North Pole." he said. So Winnie-the-Pooh went off to find Eeyore's tail. It was a fine spring morning in the forest as he started out. Little soft clouds played happily in a blue sky, skipping from time to time in front of the sun as if they had come to put it out, and then sliding away suddenly so that the next might have his turn. Through them and between them the sun shone bravely; and a copse which had worn its firs all the year round seemed old and dowdy now beside the new green lace which the beeches had put on so prettily. Through copse and spinney marched Bear; down open slopes of gorse and heather, over rocky beds of streams, up steep banks of sandstone into the heather again; and so at last, tired and hungry, to the Hundred Acre Wood. For it was in the Hundred Acre Wood that Owl lived.  "Or is it a fish?" said Bear to himself,  

"if he happened to look down." he said,  "Why would he fall in?" he said.  "Was Pooh's pencil case any better than mine?" he added.  "I don't seem to have felt at all how for a long time." Owl lived at The Chestnuts, an old-world residence of great charm, which was grander than anybody else's, or seemed so to Bear, because it had both a knocker _and_ a bell-pull. Underneath the knocker there was a notice which said: PLES RING IF AN RNSER IS REQIRD. Underneath the bell-pull there was a notice which said: PLEZ CNOKE IF AN RNSR IS NOT REQID. These notices had been written by Christopher Robin, who was the only one in the forest who could spell; for Owl, wise though he was in many ways, able to read and write and spell his own name WOL, yet somehow went all to pieces over delicate words like MEASLES and BUTTEREDTOAST. Winnie-the-Pooh read the two notices very carefully, first from left to right, and afterwards, in case he had missed some of it, from right to left. Then, to make quite sure, he knocked and pulled the knocker, and he pulled and knocked the bell-rope, and he called out in a very loud voice,  "Sixteen," And the door opened, and Owl looked out.  "My favourite colour. . . . How big was it?" he said.  "It goes in!"  "I'm very glad," said Pooh,  "That's bad,"  "Isn't there anything about Pooh in it?" said Owl,  

"What does Crustimoney Proseedcake mean?"  "it will be time for the little something, and then the last line won't be true." said Pooh.  "Hallo, Roo, my little fellow!"  "What _has_ happened to it?"  "I shall have to let go, and that would spoil _me_." said Pooh humbly.  "Yes,"  "A Reward!" said Pooh, holding up his paw.  "Coming to see me have my bath?"  "Quite, quite sure,"  "Well, it's a very nice pot, even if there's no honey in it, and if I washed it clean, and got somebody to write '_A Happy Birthday_' on it, Eeyore could keep things in it, which might be Useful."  

"Well, you can't know it without something having been sneezed."  "That's what it is. Pathetic."  "Isn't there anybody here at all?"  "Yes," said Pooh sadly.  "But Pooh," said Owl very loudly.  "Not that it matters,"  "But isn't that Rabbit's voice?" said Pooh, nodding his head.  "? ?" he went on dreamily,  "You ought to see that bird from here," and he looked wistfully at the cupboard in the corner of Owl's parlour;  "I didn't ask them,"  

"Thank you, Piglet," said Owl,  "I don't know. But something tells me that they're _suspicious_!"  "That's just what I ask myself. I ask myself, What?" murmured Bear to himself,  "Christopher Robin, Christopher Robin!" And he gave a deep sigh, and tried very hard to listen to what Owl was saying. But Owl went on and on, using longer and longer words, until at last he came back to where he started, and he explained that the person to write out this notice was Christopher Robin.  "That's the end of that one. There are others." For some time now Pooh had been saying  "It's--I wondered--It's only--Rabbit, I suppose _you_ don't know, What does the North Pole _look_ like?" and  "Pooh, you couldn't!" in turn, with his eyes shut, to all that Owl was saying, and having said,  "It's a very funny thing," last time, he said  "if I sang Hi for the life of a Bear." now, without really knowing what Owl was talking about.  "Bed-time." said Owl, a little surprised.  

"This is the first verse," So they went outside. And Pooh looked at the knocker and the notice below it, and he looked at the bell-rope and the notice below it, and the more he looked at the bell-rope, the more he felt that he had seen something like it, somewhere else, sometime before.  "Oh!" said Owl. Pooh nodded.  "where was I going? Ah, yes, Eeyore." he said,  "It's Very Useful like that. And I wanted to ask you----"  "It isn't their necks I mind,"  "is a sort of Surprise." said Pooh solemnly,  "of eating too much. I thought at the time,"  "I suppose it's just a pole stuck in the ground?"  "And one more for a handkerchief--that's eighteen. Eighteen pockets in one suit! I haven't time."  "it's your own house!"  

"That day when Pooh and Piglet tried to catch the Heffalump----" said Winnie-the-Pooh sadly. * * * * * So with these words he unhooked it, and carried it back to Eeyore; and when Christopher Robin had nailed it on in its right place again, Eeyore frisked about the forest, waving his tail so happily that Winnie-the-Pooh came over all funny, and had to hurry home for a little snack of something to sustain him. And, wiping his mouth half an hour afterwards, he sang to himself proudly: _Who found the Tail?_  "Six o'clock, Piglet. And have you got any string?" said Pooh,  CHAPTER V IN WHICH PIGLET MEETS A HEFFALUMP 

"Dear, dear,"  "Here--we--are," when Christopher Robin and Winnie-the-Pooh and Piglet were all talking together, Christopher Robin finished the mouthful he was eating and said carelessly:  "Bother!"  "But then he would see us digging it," asked Piglet.  "Then would you fly to him at _once_ and say that Rescue is Coming? And Pooh and I will think of a Rescue and come as quick as ever we can. Oh, don't _talk_, Owl, go on quick!" said Christopher Robin.  "but I shouldn't care to say '_Aha!_' by myself. It wouldn't sound _nearly_ so well. By the way,"  "Could you think and tell me and Pooh some time?" said Piglet.  "Oh, dear, oh, dearie, dearie, dear! Well, it's too late now. I can't go back, and I haven't another balloon, and perhaps Eeyore doesn't _like_ balloons so _very_ much." he said.  

"You mean like telling her a little bit of poetry or something?"  "No. At any moment----" said Pooh, wondering what a Heffalump was like.  "Well, good night, Pooh," said Christopher Robin carelessly.  "Stay there!" said Piglet.  "!!!!!!" said Pooh. Then they all talked about something else, until it was time for Pooh and Piglet to go home together. At first as they stumped along the path which edged the Hundred Acre Wood, they didn't say much to each other; but when they came to the stream and had helped each other across the stepping stones, and were able to walk side by side again over the heather, they began to talk in a friendly way about this and that, and Piglet said,  "Silly old Bear!" and Pooh said,  "Then would you read a Sustaining Book, such as would help and comfort a Wedged Bear in Great Tightness?" and Piglet said,  "I _didn't_ sneeze." and Pooh said,  "Of course I'm sure. Christopher Robin said 'All of them! Tell all of them.'" And then, just as they came to the Six Pine Trees, Pooh looked round to see that nobody else was listening, and said in a very solemn voice:  "Well, anyhow--it didn't rain,"  

"It's a nice long one,"  "Well," Pooh nodded his head several times as he said this, and waited for Piglet to say  "what _were_ you doing? First you went round the spinney twice by yourself, and then Piglet ran after you and you went round again together, and then you were just going round a fourth time----" or  "I shall call it Pootel," or something helpful of that sort, but Piglet said nothing. The fact was Piglet was wishing that _he_ had thought about it first.  "Yes, but I'm afraid--I'm very sorry, Eeyore--but when I was running along to bring it you, I fell down." said Pooh, after waiting a little longer,  "Isn't that fine?"  "We are all going on an Expedition," said Piglet, feeling quite happy again now,  "Look at me jumping," And then he said,  "And I would go in after it," and Pooh said,  "Hallo, Rabbit," And then they sat down together to think it out. Pooh's first idea was that they should dig a Very Deep Pit, and then the Heffalump would come along and fall into the Pit, and----  

"_Ow!_" said Piglet.  "When Kanga _does_ Discover the Difference?" said Pooh.  "_Where?_" Pooh rubbed his nose with his paw, and said that the Heffalump might be walking along, humming a little song, and looking up at the sky, wondering if it would rain, and so he wouldn't see the Very Deep Pit until he was half-way down, when it would be too late. Piglet said that this was a very good Trap, but supposing it were raining already? Pooh rubbed his nose again, and said that he hadn't thought of that. And then he brightened up, and said that, if it were raining already, the Heffalump would be looking at the sky wondering if it would _clear up_, and so he wouldn't see the Very Deep Pit until he was half-way down. . . . When it would be too late. Piglet said that, now that this point had been explained, he thought it was a Cunning Trap. Pooh was very proud when he heard this, and he felt that the Heffalump was as good as caught already, but there was just one other thing which had to be thought about, and it was this. _Where should they dig the Very Deep Pit?_ Piglet said that the best place would be somewhere where a Heffalump was, just before he fell into it, only about a foot farther on.  "Up there," said Pooh.  "Well, either a tail _is_ there or it isn't there. You can't make a mistake about it. And yours _isn't_ there!"  "Well!" said Pooh,  "The thing to do is as follows. First, Issue a Reward. Then----" He thought for a long time and then added sadly,  "How interesting, and did she?"  "I see now," said Piglet. They sighed and got up; and when they had taken a few gorse prickles out of themselves they sat down again; and all the time Pooh was saying to himself,  "Honey," For he felt sure that a Very Clever Brain could catch a Heffalump if only he knew the right way to go about it.  

"_Ow!_" he said to Piglet,  "that we ought to eat all our Provisions now, so that we shan't have so much to carry."  "No, not at all," said Piglet,  "However, the prospects are rapidly becoming more favourable. At any moment----"  "You mean, in case it really is two Woozles," said Pooh excitedly,  "I ought to say,"  "Friends," Pooh, who had gone into a happy dream, woke up with a start, and said that Honey was a much more trappy thing than Haycorns. Piglet didn't think so; and they were just going to argue about it, when Piglet remembered that, if they put acorns in the Trap, _he_ would have to find the acorns, but if they put honey, then Pooh would have to give up some of his own honey, so he said,  "but you missed the _balloon_." just as Pooh remembered it too, and was going to say,  "and see what happens."  "Can you read, Pooh?" said Piglet to himself in a thoughtful way, as if it were now settled.  

"I do remember, and then when I try to remember, I forget."  "Christopher Robin!" said Pooh, and he stumped off. As soon as he got home, he went to the larder; and he stood on a chair, and took down a very large jar of honey from the top shelf. It had HUNNY written on it, but, just to make sure, he took off the paper cover and looked at it, and it _looked_ just like honey.  "I am not at all sure," said Pooh.  "All right," So he put his tongue in, and took a large lick.  "I see, I see," he said,  "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie_." he said,  "This modern Behind-the-ears nonsense. What do _you_ think, Pooh?" And he gave a deep sigh.  "I don't know if you are interested in Poetry at all?" Having made certain of this, he took the jar back to Piglet, and Piglet looked up from the bottom of his Very Deep Pit, and said,  "Oh, dear, oh, dear, oh, dear!" and Pooh said,  "Help, help, a Herrible Hoffalump! Hoff, Hoff, a Hellible Horralump! Holl, Holl, a Hoffable Hellerump!" and he threw it down to Piglet, and Piglet said,  

"Kanga, I see that the time has come to spleak painly." and Pooh said  "My birthday?" Because it was. So Piglet put the jar at the bottom of the Pit, and climbed out, and they went off home together.  "All right, honey then," said Piglet, when they had got to Pooh's house.  "Good morning, Pooh,"  "I do remember,"  "Birthday cake?"  "_it_"  "of not having front doors big enough."  "I wonder who it can be."  "The winter months?" And off Piglet trotted to his house TRESPASSERS W, while Pooh made his preparations for bed. Some hours later, just as the night was beginning to steal away, Pooh woke up suddenly with a sinking feeling. He had had that sinking feeling before, and he knew what it meant. _He was hungry._ So he went to the larder, and he stood on a chair and reached up to the top shelf, and found--nothing.  

"You must listen very carefully," he thought.  "He has gone to see his friend Pooh Bear, who is a great friend of his." And then he began to wander up and down, wondering where it was and murmuring a murmur to himself. Like this: It's very, very funny, 'Cos I _know_ I had some honey; 'Cos it had a label on, Saying HUNNY. A goloptious full-up pot too, And I don't know where it's got to, No, I don't know where it's gone-- Well, it's funny. He had murmured this to himself three times in a singing sort of way, when suddenly he remembered. He had put it into the Cunning Trap to catch the Heffalump.  "The fact is," said Pooh.  "What we are talking about." And he got back into bed. But he couldn't sleep. The more he tried to sleep, the more he couldn't. He tried Counting Sheep, which is sometimes a good way of getting to sleep, and, as that was no good, he tried counting Heffalumps. And that was worse. Because every Heffalump that he counted was making straight for a pot of Pooh's honey, _and eating it all_. For some minutes he lay there miserably, but when the five hundred and eighty-seventh Heffalump was licking its jaws, and saying to itself,  "I did know once, only I've sort of forgotten," Pooh could bear it no longer. He jumped out of bed, he ran out of the house, and he ran straight to the Six Pine Trees. The Sun was still in bed, but there was a lightness in the sky over the Hundred Acre Wood which seemed to show that it was waking up and would soon be kicking off the clothes. In the half-light the Pine Trees looked cold and lonely, and the Very Deep Pit seemed deeper than it was, and Pooh's jar of honey at the bottom was something mysterious, a shape and no more. But as he got nearer to it his nose told him that it was indeed honey, and his tongue came out and began to polish up his mouth, ready for it.  "Yes, you said----" said Pooh, as he got his nose inside the jar.  "That must be it," And then he thought a little and said,  "But it isn't _my_ birthday." Indeed, he had eaten most of it. But there was a little left at the very bottom of the jar, and he pushed his head right in, and began to lick. . . . By and by Piglet woke up. As soon as he woke he said to himself,  "Yes, I heard you. Who dropped it?" Then he said bravely,  "For Pooh?" and then, still more bravely,  

"Pooh!" But he didn't feel very brave, for the word which was really jiggeting about in his brain was  "_Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow_" What was a Heffalump like? Was it Fierce? _Did_ it come when you whistled? And _how_ did it come? Was it Fond of Pigs at all? If it was Fond of Pigs, did it make any difference _what sort of Pig_? Supposing it was Fierce with Pigs, would it make any difference _if the Pig had a grandfather called TRESPASSERS WILLIAM_? He didn't know the answer to any of these questions . . . and he was going to see his first Heffalump in about an hour from now! Of course Pooh would be with him, and it was much more Friendly with two. But suppose Heffalumps were Very Fierce with Pigs _and_ Bears? Wouldn't it be better to pretend that he had a headache, and couldn't go up to the Six Pine Trees this morning? But then suppose that it was a very fine day, and there was no Heffalump in the trap, here he would be, in bed all the morning, simply wasting his time for nothing. What should he do? And then he had a Clever Idea. He would go up very quietly to the Six Pine Trees now, peep very cautiously into the Trap, and see if there _was_ a Heffalump there. And if there was, he would go back to bed, and if there wasn't, he wouldn't. So off he went. At first he thought that there wouldn't be a Heffalump in the Trap, and then he thought that there would, and as he got nearer he was _sure_ that there would, because he could hear it heffalumping about it like anything.  "It means the Thing to Do." said Piglet to himself. And he wanted to run away. But somehow, having got so near, he felt that he must just see what a Heffalump was like. So he crept to the side of the Trap and looked in. . . . And all the time Winnie-the-Pooh had been trying to get the honey-jar off his head. The more he shook it, the more tightly it stuck.  "Look at me sw----" he said, inside the jar, and  "Thank you, Pooh," and, mostly,  "Many happy returns of the day," And he tried bumping it against things, but as he couldn't see what he was bumping it against, it didn't help him; and he tried to climb out of the Trap, but as he could see nothing but jar, and not much of that, he couldn't find his way. So at last he lifted up his head, jar and all, and made a loud, roaring noise of Sadness and Despair . . . and it was at that moment that Piglet looked down.  "A present," cried Piglet,  "Can't all _what_?" and he scampered off as hard as he could, still crying out,  "Well, we must be getting home," And he didn't stop crying and scampering until he got to Christopher Robin's house.  "Then you had better have the blue balloon," said Christopher Robin, who was just getting up.  

"Owl! I require an answer! It's Bear speaking." said Piglet, breathing so hard that he could hardly speak,  "Well, you just have to talk very hard to Kanga so as she doesn't notice anything."  "Here I am,"  "I just came across it in the Forest. It was hanging over a bush, and I thought at first somebody lived there, so I rang it, and nothing happened, and then I rang it again very loudly, and it came off in my hand, and as nobody seemed to want it, I took it home, and----" said Piglet, waving his paw.  "Piglet,"  "I am Piglet!"  "What was it doing?" said Christopher Robin, putting on his shoes,  "What mulberry bush is that?" Piglet wasn't afraid if he had Christopher Robin with him, so off they went. . . .  "If they are having a joke with me, I will have a joke with them." said Piglet anxiously, as they got near.  "But I can't stay here for a _week_!" said Christopher Robin. It was Pooh bumping his head against a tree-root he had found.  

"Me going on having a real birthday?" said Piglet.  "I am going to give a party." And he held on tight to Christopher Robin's hand. Suddenly Christopher Robin began to laugh . . . and he laughed . . . and he laughed . . . and he laughed. And while he was still laughing--_Crash_ went the Heffalump's head against the tree-root, Smash went the jar, and out came Pooh's head again. . . . Then Piglet saw what a Foolish Piglet he had been, and he was so ashamed of himself that he ran straight off home and went to bed with a headache. But Christopher Robin and Pooh went home to breakfast together.  "I can hear _something_," said Christopher Robin.  "_Ooooooo!_"  CHAPTER VI IN WHICH EEYORE HAS A BIRTHDAY AND GETS TWO PRESENTS 

"But if I do that, it will spoil the balloon,"  "Come on!" said Pooh. old grey Donkey, stood by the side of the stream, and looked at himself in the water.  "Couldn't I give it too?" he said.  "Not now," He turned and walked slowly down the stream for twenty yards, splashed across it, and walked slowly back on the other side. Then he looked at himself in the water again.  "No, but I--I--oh, Eeyore, I burst the balloon!" he said.  "I told you so. I'm Piglet." There was a crackling noise in the bracken behind him, and out came Pooh.  

"Oh, well, then, come in." said Pooh.  "Of course I'm right," said Eeyore gloomily.  "What?" he said.  "Yes, Eeyore, and I've brought you a present." said he.  "Well,"  "Expedition, silly old Bear. It's got an 'x' in it."  "_you_ wanted to catch _me_, how would you do it?" said Pooh, rubbing his nose.  "I should do it like this. I should make a Trap, and I should put a Jar of Honey in the Trap, and you would smell it, and you would go in after it, and----"  "I wonder what that bang was. I couldn't have made such a noise just falling down. And where's my balloon? And what's that small piece of damp rag doing?" said Pooh. He thought for a long time, and then asked,  "I just wondered. . . . About as big as Piglet,"  

"And Piglet and Rabbit and all of you. Don't you remember?" went on Eeyore gloomily.  "I didn't know it was as late as that." he explained.  "Which it is," Pooh sat down on a large stone, and tried to think this out. It sounded to him like a riddle, and he was never much good at riddles, being a Bear of Very Little Brain. So he sang _Cottleston Pie_ instead: Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie, A fly can't bird, but a bird can fly. Ask me a riddle and I reply:  "Get something across the stream lower down, some of you fellows," That was the first verse. When he had finished it, Eeyore didn't actually say that he didn't like it, so Pooh very kindly sang the second verse to him: Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie, A fish can't whistle and neither can I. Ask me a riddle and I reply:  "We'll do it this afternoon, and I'll come with you," Eeyore still said nothing at all, so Pooh hummed the third verse quietly to himself: Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie, Why does a chicken, I don't know why. Ask me a riddle and I reply:  "Piglet, I have decided something."  "Poor old Eeyore. I'll dry it for you," said Eeyore.  "including oddments, it is a great pleasure, or perhaps I had better say it has been a pleasure so far, to see you at my party. What I did was nothing. Any of you--except Rabbit and Owl and Kanga--would have done the same. Oh, and Pooh. My remarks do not, of course, apply to Piglet and Roo, because they are too small. Any of you would have done the same. But it just happened to be Me. It was not, I need hardly say, with an idea of getting what Christopher Robin is looking for now"--and he put his front leg to his mouth and said in a loud whisper, "Try under the table"--"that I did what I did--but because I feel that we should all do what we can to help. I feel that we should all----"  "I suppose I could," said Pooh.  "That would _not_ be a good plan. Now I'll just wash it first, and then you can write on it." said Eeyore.  

"Oh, well, then, I'll be going on. Good-bye."  "I don't think so,"  "It is."  "No!"  "It's a Missage," said Pooh in great surprise.  "Oh! I see," He waved a foot from side to side.  "Let's pretend it isn't," Pooh looked--first to the right and then to the left.  "I don't _think_ so," said Pooh.  "Can't you see them?" said Pooh.  "I've had it,"  

"I wonder if Kanga will have to practise too so as to understand it."  "Oh, yes," said Pooh.  "Talking of Poetry," said Eeyore.  "You mean I'd _never_ get out?" he explained.  "It's like this," Pooh scratched his head, being a little puzzled by all this.  "Christopher Robin!" he asked.  "There's Pooh,"  "Very interesting,"  "Some do and some don't. You never can tell with Heffalumps. Well, good night!"  "we're going on an Expotition, all of us, with things to eat. To discover something."  

"Rabbit had to go away,"  "Oh, there you are."  "Oh, there you are!"  "Hullo, Eeyore," said Pooh.  "Was it me?" said Eeyore, almost breaking down,  "Christopher Robin told me what it said, and _then_ I could." This was too much for Pooh.  "Oh!" he called to Eeyore, as he turned and hurried back home as quick as he could; for he felt that he must get poor Eeyore a present of _some_ sort at once, and he could always think of a proper one afterwards. Outside his house he found Piglet, jumping up and down trying to reach the knocker.  "The best way," he said.  "Nothing fierce?" said Piglet.  "You don't often see them,"  

"Why didn't I give it to him in the morning?" said Piglet.  "Well, even if I'm in the moon, I needn't be face downwards all the time,"  "Oh, help!" said Pooh kindly. So he reached up and knocked at the door.  "Hardly at all," he began,  "Oh, is that what it is?" And he knocked again.  "My song." said Piglet,  "My present?"  "Come and look at them now." said Pooh.  "that one of us was eating too much," he said.  "Now is it true, or is it not, "That what is which and which is what?" So in they went. The first thing Pooh did was to go to the cupboard to see if he had quite a small jar of honey left; and he had, so he took it down.  

"Ah, well, perhaps from up here it looks different. And, as I say, you never can tell with bees." he explained,  "_Look!_"  "Well, could you very kindly tell me where Rabbit is?" said Piglet.  "and Rabbit means Company,"  "You look like a Bear holding on to a balloon," said Pooh.  "What sort of Me?"  "I _was_ right. It _is_ honey, right the way down."  "It's just the place," So off Piglet trotted; and in the other direction went Pooh, with his jar of honey. It was a warm day, and he had a long way to go. He hadn't gone more than half-way when a sort of funny feeling began to creep all over him. It began at the tip of his nose and trickled all through him and out at the soles of his feet. It was just as if somebody inside him were saying,  "Well,"  "This party," said Pooh,  

"H--hup!" So he sat down and took the top off his jar of honey.  "Quite true, Piglet, although I had forgotten it for the moment." he thought.  "Help, help!" And he began to eat.  "What do you think you'll answer?" he thought, as he took his last lick of the inside of the jar,  "I'm giving him a Useful Pot to Keep Things In, and I wanted to ask you----" He got up slowly. And then, suddenly, he remembered. He had eaten Eeyore's birthday present!  "You'll like this piece of poetry," said Pooh.  "and I am a Bear of No Brain at All." For a little while he couldn't think of anything. Then he thought:  "You ought to look at that tree right over there," So, as he was just passing the Hundred Acre Wood, he went inside to call on Owl, who lived there.  "where's your boat?" he said.  "Oh!" said Owl.  

"Yes, only being Fierce in the Winter Months." said Pooh.  "No,"  "Christopher Robin is giving a party."  "I suppose they will be sending me down the odd bits which got trodden on. Kind and Thoughtful. Not at all, don't mention it."  "That, Piglet, is a _very_ good idea. It is just what Eeyore wants to cheer him up. Nobody can be uncheered with a balloon."  "If we can't pull you out, Pooh, we might push you back." said Owl, taking it out of Pooh's paw.  "Seventeen, isn't it?"  "Yes." said Owl.  "I didn't want the others to hear," said Pooh earnestly.  "Not if he was looking at the sky."  

"Talking of Poetry,"  "An Ambush," said Pooh.  "Pooh,"  "the Expedition is over. You have found the North Pole!" said Owl, looking at it all round.  "You gave him--don't you remember--a little--a little----"  "you're stuck." said Pooh.  "Pooh," Well, he washed the pot out, and dried it, while Owl licked the end of his pencil, and wondered how to spell  "I thought you said Provisions. I'll go and tell them."  "Of course, Eeyore." he asked a little anxiously.  "But you said----"  

"Bon-hommy,"  "A week!" So Owl wrote . . . and this is what he wrote: HIPY PAPY BTHUTHDTH THUTHDA BTHUTHDY. Pooh looked on admiringly.  "_It means he had the name over the door in gold letters, and lived under it._" said Owl carelessly.  "Hallo, Rabbit, isn't that you?" said Pooh, very much impressed by it.  "As long as it means that, I don't mind,"  "I'll try," said Pooh. While all this was happening, Piglet had gone back to his own house to get Eeyore's balloon. He held it very tightly against himself, so that it shouldn't blow away, and he ran as fast as he could so as to get to Eeyore before Pooh did; for he thought that he would like to be the first one to give a present, just as if he had thought of it without being told by anybody. And running along, and thinking how pleased Eeyore would be, he didn't look where he was going . . . and suddenly he put his foot in a rabbit hole, and fell down flat on his face. BANG!!!???***!!! Piglet lay there, wondering what had happened. At first he thought that the whole world had blown up; and then he thought that perhaps only the Forest part of it had; and then he thought that perhaps only _he_ had, and he was now alone in the moon or somewhere, and would never see Christopher Robin or Pooh or Eeyore again. And then he thought,  "_Oh!_" so he got cautiously up and looked about him. He was still in the Forest!  "We must rescue him at once! I thought he was with _you_, Pooh. Owl, could you rescue him on your back?" he thought.  "Thank-you" It was the balloon!  "I knew it wasn't Piglet," said Piglet  

"If I know anything about anything, that hole means Rabbit," So he trotted on, rather sadly now, and down he came to the side of the stream where Eeyore was, and called out to him.  "Is it a starling or a blackbird?" shouted Piglet.  "it's Owl who knows something about something," said Eeyore.  "Have you an umbrella in your house?" he said.  "as a present. What are _you_ going to give?" said he.  "Where _are_ you?" he said.  "you haven't any pluck." said Piglet, having now got closer. Eeyore stopped looking at himself in the stream, and turned to stare at Piglet.  "I've got two names," he said.  "it is. No doubt about that. And honey, I should say, right down to the bottom of the jar. Unless, of course,"  "You'll love it," Balancing on three legs, he began to bring his fourth leg very cautiously up to his ear.  

"Paw-marks." he explained, as he fell down for the third time.  "If only I could _think_ of something!" He pushed his ear forward with his hoof.  "That's funny," said Piglet again.  "My favourite size. Well, well."  "just a mouthful of condensed milk or whatnot, with perhaps a lick of honey----"  "What's for breakfast?"  "Owl,"  "Fancy that! Fancy my making a mistake like that."  "_Aha!_" Eeyore took down his right hoof from his right ear, turned round, and with great difficulty put up his left hoof.  "Where is it?" he said.  

"What do I look like?"  "Quite so," said Piglet very loudly.  "somebody else will have to do something, and I hope they will do it soon, because if they don't I shall have to swim, which I can't, so I hope they do it soon."  "by means of a trap. And it must be a Cunning Trap, so you will have to help me, Piglet."  "Like--like----It had the biggest head you ever saw, Christopher Robin. A great enormous thing, like--like nothing. A huge big--well, like a--I don't know--like an enormous big nothing. Like a jar."  "What have you decided, Pooh?"  "How did you get here, Pooh?"  "Hallo, Piglet,"  "It is hard to be brave," said Eeyore.  "Ow!"  

"Oh!"  "only very carefully so as not to hurt myself, and I would get to the Jar of Honey, and I should lick round the edges first of all, pretending that there wasn't any more, you know, and then I should walk away and think about it a little, and then I should come back and start licking in the middle of the jar, and then----"  "I should think poor old Rabbit is about flooded out by this time." There was a very long silence.  "To discover what?" said Eeyore at last. Piglet nodded.  "Is that the end of the story?"  "I've got a message for you." said Piglet sniffing a little.  "I'm just telling everybody. We can look for the North Pole, or we can play 'Here we go gathering Nuts and May' with the end part of an ant's nest. It's all the same to me." And he gave Eeyore the small piece of damp rag.  "A pity. Well, now, if you walk up and down with your umbrella, saying, 'Tut-tut, it looks like rain,' I shall do what I can by singing a little Cloud Song, such as a cloud might sing. . . . Go!" said Eeyore, a little surprised. Piglet nodded.  "Why, what's the matter?" Piglet nodded again.  "How did they come here?"  

"Of course they are. And Rabbit and Kanga and all of you. It's an Expedition. That's what an Expedition means. A long line of everybody. You'd better tell the others to get ready, while I see if my gun's all right. And we must all bring Provisions."  "If you wanted it very much." said Eeyore.  "I shall have to go on." he went on,  "there is."  "Your family."  "On my boat," he murmured to himself.  "Well,"  "Oh, Pooh!"  "I remember my uncle saying once that he had seen cheese just this colour." he said to himself sadly.  "Is this it?" Piglet felt very miserable, and didn't know what to say. He was still opening his mouth to begin something, and then deciding that it wasn't any good saying _that_, when he heard a shout from the other side of the river, and there was Pooh.  

"I must have an Escape." called out Pooh, forgetting that he had said it already.  "That Accounts for a Good Deal," said Eeyore gloomily.  "It's an Ambush, Pooh, when people jump at you suddenly," said Pooh excitedly.  "I don't think it saw _me_." said Eeyore. Pooh had now splashed across the stream to Eeyore, and Piglet was sitting a little way off, his head in his paws, snuffling to himself.  "It _is_ you. Glad to see you." said Pooh.  "for an Ambush." When Eeyore saw the pot, he became quite excited.  "I just found it," he said.  "Well, let's go in."  "I thought it was _once_. But I suppose it isn't." said Pooh.  "There you are!"  

"Not a bit." said Eeyore proudly.  "is a party because of what someone did, and we all know who it was, and it's his party, because of what he did, and I've got a present for him and here it is." And as Piglet looked sorrowfully round, Eeyore picked the balloon up with his teeth, and placed it carefully in the pot; picked it out and put it on the ground; and then picked it up again and put it carefully back.  "The atmospheric conditions have been very unfavourable lately," said Pooh.  "Whatever's the matter, Piglet?"  "What is it, Pooh?" said Piglet.  "All of them,"  "I must have that in the other ear," said Eeyore.  "Bring what?"  "Shall I put my umbrella up?" said Pooh happily,  "How sweet to be a Cloud Floating in the Blue!"  

"Yes, so will you tell Pooh as quickly as you can, and all the others, because it will be to-morrow." said Piglet happily,  "Your birthday?" But Eeyore wasn't listening. He was taking the balloon out, and putting it back again, as happy as could be. . . . * * * * *  "Joke," asked Christopher Robin sadly.  "Roo, dear!" I said.  "I have just seen Eeyore,"  "Going on an Expotition?"  "This isn't anything to eat, it's asking you to the party. To-morrow."  "Wait a moment,"  "So will you go and tell them, Owl?"  CHAPTER VII IN WHICH KANGA AND BABY ROO COME TO THE FOREST, AND PIGLET HAS A BATH 

"My birthday still?"  

"You were quite right," said Christopher Robin. to know where they came from, but there they were in the Forest: Kanga and Baby Roo. When Pooh asked Christopher Robin,  "Oh! that sort." Christopher Robin said,  "Some can and some can't. That's how it is." and Pooh, who didn't, said  "Which I doubt," Then he nodded his head twice and said,  "You'll be quite safe with _him_. Good-bye," Then he went to call upon his friend Piglet to see what _he_ thought about it. And at Piglet's house he found Rabbit. So they all talked about it together.  "B" said Rabbit.  "And didn't _I_ give him anything?"  "Good," said Pooh.  "Hush!"  "we're just coming to a Dangerous Place." said Pooh.  

"I don't know,"  "There! What did I tell you?" said Pooh.  "Things to eat."  "because Eeyore, who is a friend of mine, has lost his tail. And he's Moping about it. So could you very kindly tell me how to find it for him?" said Rabbit very slowly and carefully,  "What sort of stories does he like?"  "Hush!" said Piglet.  "No" said Rabbit.  "Who?" There was a long and thoughtful silence . . . and then Pooh, who had been frowning very hard for some minutes, said:  "But it's from Piglet!"  "we write out this notice, and we put it up all over the forest." said Rabbit.  

"So as not to miss any of it,"  "Of course I have,"  "Look at me swimming!"  "It's Christopher Robin," Pooh rubbed his nose and said that he thought Rabbit had been talking about his family.  "Yes?" said Rabbit carelessly.  "Just one more jump, dear, and then we must go home."  "I'm afraid no meals," said Piglet impatiently.  "Sing. Umty-tiddly, umty-too. Here we go gathering Nuts and May. Enjoy yourself."  "We might go in your umbrella," said Pooh.  "Eeyore. My dear friend Eeyore. He was--he was fond of it." said Rabbit,  

"Christopher--_ow!_--Robin,"  "You mean Piglet. The little fellow with the excited ears. That's Piglet. I'll tell him." said Pooh, practising.  "Funny little Roo," he went on,  "Tell Kanga who I am! She keeps saying I'm Roo. I'm _not_ Roo, am I?"  "It all comes, I suppose," said Rabbit kindly,  "You needn't shout so loud. I heard you quite well the first time."  "N-no," said Pooh humbly.  "It's just a thing you discover," Pooh went into a corner and tried saying 'Aha!' in that sort of voice. Sometimes it seemed to him that it did mean what Rabbit said, and sometimes it seemed to him that it didn't.  "Oh, help!" he thought.  "If it _is_ a good morning,"  

"Yes, Eeyore, and I brought you a balloon." said Piglet, fidgeting a bit.  "Just one more jump, Roo, dear, and then we really _must_ be going."  "But I thought he was a boy?" said Rabbit, taking out a pencil, and licking the end of it,  "A balloon?"  "Very well," said Piglet, sniffing slightly,  "An Invitation!" Rabbit, who had begun to write very busily, looked up and said:  "Never mind, Eeyore," Piglet was so excited at the idea of being Useful, that he forgot to be frightened any more, and when Rabbit went on to say that Kangas were only Fierce during the winter months, being at other times of an Affectionate Disposition, he could hardly sit still, he was so eager to begin being useful at once.  "Hallo, Piglet!" said Pooh sadly.  "that it isn't just an ordinary sort of boat. Sometimes it's a Boat, and sometimes it's more of an Accident. It all depends."  "That's what we're looking for," said Piglet comfortingly.  

"Hallo!"  "It isn't there!" said Rabbit solemnly as he sharpened his pencil,  "All that wet for nothing. What's that bit of paper doing?"  "And Eeyore--and then suddenly----" said Piglet, and tried not to look disappointed. But Pooh went into a corner of the room and said proudly to himself,  "Have you all got something?"  "We were just going home," said Rabbit when he had finished writing, and Pooh and Piglet sat listening very eagerly with their mouths open. This was what Rabbit read out: PLAN TO CAPTURE BABY ROO 1. _General Remarks._ Kanga runs faster than any of Us, even Me. 2. _More General Remarks._ Kanga never takes her eye off Baby Roo, except when he's safely buttoned up in her pocket. 3. _Therefore._ If we are to capture Baby Roo, we must get a Long Start, because Kanga runs faster than any of Us, even Me. (_See_ 1.) 4. _A Thought._ If Roo had jumped out of Kanga's pocket and Piglet had jumped in, Kanga wouldn't know the difference, because Piglet is a Very Small Animal. 5. Like Roo. 6. But Kanga would have to be looking the other way first, so as not to see Piglet jumping in. 7. See 2. 8. _Another Thought._ But if Pooh was talking to her very excitedly, she _might_ look the other way for a moment. 9. And then I could run away with Roo. 10. Quickly. 11. _And Kanga wouldn't discover the difference until Afterwards._ Well, Rabbit read this out proudly, and for a little while after he had read it nobody said anything. And then Piglet, who had been opening and shutting his mouth without making any noise, managed to say very huskily:  "You can't be Roo,"  "_Balloon?_"  "Tracks,"  "We shall have to wait for you to get thin again."  

"Now, Roo----"  "It isn't _meant_ to be."  "_I'll_ dig the pit, while _you_ go and get the honey."  "It's their teeth. But if Christopher Robin is coming I don't mind anything."  "I think he thought of something he had to go and see about suddenly." said Piglet,  "What's that like?" said Piglet,  "Which one would you like?" he said,  "All except me," he said,  "_A third animal has joined the other two!_"  "Tracking something,"  

"but there seem to be _two_ animals now. This--whatever-it-was--has been joined by another--whatever-it-is--and the two of them are now proceeding in company. Would you mind coming with me, Piglet, in case they turn out to be Hostile Animals?"  "It's a nice pot,"  "You are, are you?" said Pooh Bear.  "Bother!" he said.  "I know what it is,"  "Hush!"  "Silly old Bear!"  "Good morning, Christopher Robin,"  "What are _you_ trying to do?"  "Hunting what?" said Rabbit.  

"Anything you like." So they all went out to look for Kanga. Kanga and Roo were spending a quiet afternoon in a sandy part of the Forest. Baby Roo was practising very small jumps in the sand, and falling down mouse-holes and climbing out of them, and Kanga was fidgeting about and saying  "Only perhaps it wasn't." And at that moment who should come stumping up the hill but Pooh.  "_Aha!_"  "Pooh hasn't much Brain, but he never comes to any harm. He does silly things and they turn out right. There's Owl. Owl hasn't exactly got Brain, but he Knows Things. He would know the Right Thing to Do when Surrounded by Water. There's Rabbit. He hasn't Learnt in Books, but he can always Think of a Clever Plan. There's Kanga. She isn't Clever, Kanga isn't, but she would be so anxious about Roo that she would do a Good Thing to Do without thinking about It. And then there's Eeyore. And Eeyore is so miserable anyhow that he wouldn't mind about this. But I wonder what Christopher Robin would do?"  "Suppose," squeaked Roo, and fell into another mouse-hole.  "somebody put cheese in at the bottom just for a joke. Perhaps I had better go a _little_ further . . . just in case . . . in case Heffalumps _don't_ like cheese . . . same as me. . . . Ah!"  "Got it?" said Kanga.  "I'm not complaining, but There It Is." Rabbit and Piglet, who had now come up from the other side of the hill, said  "To lead them home with." and  "I think so." and Roo asked them to look at him jumping, so they stayed and looked. And Kanga looked too. . . .  

"But it's too small for two of us," said Pooh, after Rabbit had winked at him twice,  "Nothing, Pooh Bear, nothing. We can't all, and some of us don't. That's all there is to it."  "I don't hold with all this washing," said Kanga.  "This writing business. Pencils and what-not. Over-rated, if you ask me. Silly stuff. Nothing in it." said Pooh.  "Why?" There was a short silence while Roo fell down another mouse-hole.  "Which I doubt," said Rabbit in a loud whisper behind his paw.  "Oh! just something." said Pooh,  "How do you know I'm not listening?"  "Christopher Robin didn't say anything about fierce. He just said it had an 'x'." said Kanga.  "Many hap----"  

"So could you very sweetly?" said Rabbit.  "Pooh's whisper was a perfectly private whisper, and there was no need----" said Piglet.  "Good afternoon, Pooh." said Rabbit.  "Isn't it _awful_?" said Piglet.  "I know Piglet well, and he's _quite_ a different colour." said Kanga, but she still looked at Baby Roo.  "Bath first," said Rabbit. Pooh gave a little cough and began. LINES WRITTEN BY A BEAR OF VERY LITTLE BRAIN On Monday, when the sun is hot I wonder to myself a lot:  "Yes, well never mind about that. There you would be, and there I should catch you. Now the first thing to think of is, What do Heffalumps like? I should think acorns, shouldn't you? We'll get a lot of----I say, wake up, Pooh!" On Tuesday, when it hails and snows, The feeling on me grows and grows That hardly anybody knows If those are these or these are those. On Wednesday, when the sky is blue, And I have nothing else to do, I sometimes wonder if it's true That who is what and what is who. On Thursday, when it starts to freeze And hoar-frost twinkles on the trees, How very readily one sees That these are whose--but whose are these? On Friday----  "How do you mean?" said Kanga, not waiting to hear what happened on Friday.  "Yes," Rabbit gave Pooh a hurrying-up sort of nudge.  "Here are we--you, Pooh, and you, Piglet, and Me--and suddenly----" said Pooh quickly,  

"Tracking what?"  "Now, look there." said Kanga.  "Yes, dear, yes,"  "About twelve," said Pooh, pointing behind Kanga's back.  "Do you see, Piglet? Look at their tracks! Three, as it were, Woozles, and one, as it was, Wizzle. _Another Woozle has joined them!_" said Kanga.  "So is a gorse-bush sometimes,"  "No." said Rabbit.  "It may be," And he picked up Roo in his paws.  "Where?" said Pooh.  "I am,"  

"that it wouldn't be a good idea to have a _cold_ bath this evening. Would you like that, Roo, dear?" said Rabbit.  "We're all going on an Expotition with Christopher Robin!"  "I hope he's all right," said Piglet.  "No, it isn't! Is that all you've got left?" said Rabbit.  "Good morning, Winnie-_ther_-Pooh," said Pooh.  "_Ow!_" said Rabbit.  "_Bother!_" And then at last Kanga did turn her head to look. And the moment that her head was turned, Rabbit said in a loud voice  "A sort of boat, I think," and in jumped Piglet into Kanga's pocket, and off scampered Rabbit, with Roo in his paws, as fast as he could.  "It will rain soon, you see if it doesn't," said Kanga, turning round again.  "Hallo, are you stuck?" Piglet made a squeaky Roo-noise from the bottom of Kanga's pocket.  

"?" said Pooh.  "Oh, bother!"  "And many happy returns to you, Pooh Bear."  "Well, good-bye. I must be going on."  "don't you know what an Ambush is?" said Kanga.  "what's the first thing you say to yourself?" And in three large jumps she was gone. Pooh looked after her as she went.  "_What_ do we do to this--what you were saying? You sneezed just as you were going to tell me." he thought.  "There must be somebody there, because somebody must have _said_ 'Nobody.'" But there were moments when Piglet wished that Kanga couldn't. Often, when he had had a long walk home through the Forest, he had wished that he were a bird; but now he thought jerkily to himself at the bottom of Kanga's pocket, this take  "to be a Very Small Animal Entirely Surrounded by Water. Christopher Robin and Pooh could escape by Climbing Trees, and Kanga could escape by Jumping, and Rabbit could escape by Burrowing, and Owl could escape by Flying, and Eeyore could escape by--by Making a Loud Noise Until Rescued, and here am I, surrounded by water and I can't do _anything_." And as he went up in the air he said,  "About himself. Because he's _that_ sort of Bear." and as he came down he said,  

"Perhaps they think that you're after their honey." And he was saying,  "I was just beginning to think," all the way to Kanga's house. Of course as soon as Kanga unbuttoned her pocket, she saw what had happened. Just for a moment, she thought she was frightened, and then she knew she wasn't; for she felt quite sure that Christopher Robin would never let any harm happen to Roo. So she said to herself,  "Oh!"  "Now jump in, Roo, dear, and we'll go home." she said, as she took Piglet out of her pocket.  "Of course you did,"  "BB" said Piglet, as well as he could after his Terrifying Journey. But it wasn't a very good  "I mean," and Kanga didn't seem to understand what it meant.  "_What_ about a story?" said Kanga in a cheerful voice.  "You're doing it again," said Piglet again, looking round anxiously for the others. But the others weren't there. Rabbit was playing with Baby Roo in his own house, and feeling more fond of him every minute, and Pooh, who had decided to be a Kanga, was still at the sandy place on the top of the Forest, practising jumps.  "Silly old Bear," said Kanga in a thoughtful voice,  

"But you said 'Many happy returns'----" Piglet, who had never been really fond of baths, shuddered a long indignant shudder, and said in as brave a voice as he could:  "If people jump out at you suddenly, that's an Ambush,"  "Wouldn't they notice _you_ underneath the balloon?" said Kanga, as she got the bath-water ready.  "Depends on what?" said Piglet loudly.  "It's bad enough,"  "I just came round----" said Kanga soothingly.  "It's quite easy. It's so as I can hear better. . . . There, that's done it! Now then, what were you saying?" she went on, as she took a large bar of yellow soap out of the cupboard.  "I might,"  "Hallo, Pooh," shouted Piglet.  "I'm sorry about that. Let's have a look at you."  

"Wait a moment." said Kanga rather severely.  "You can _stay_ here all right, silly old Bear. It's getting you out which is so difficult." Before he knew where he was, Piglet was in the bath, and Kanga was scrubbing him firmly with a large lathery flannel.  "_I_ do," cried Piglet.  "Can't you _see_?"  "That's right," said Kanga.  "I can see a bird in it from here,"  "For I am a Bear of Very Little Brain, and long words Bother me." spluttered Piglet, as soon as he could speak again . . . and then accidentally had another mouthful of lathery flannel.  "That would _not_ be a good plan." said Kanga, and in another minute Piglet was out of the bath, and being rubbed dry with a towel.  "After all, one can't complain. I have my friends. Somebody spoke to me only yesterday. And was it last week or the week before that Rabbit bumped into me and said 'Bother!' The Social Round. Always something going on." said Kanga,  "Oh, are those 'P's' piglets? I thought they were poohs."  

"Oh! Well, where is it?" said Piglet.  "We'll read to you," At that moment there was a knock at the door.  "Unless it's a fish." said Kanga, and in came Christopher Robin.  "There's a South Pole," cried Piglet.  "Are you sure?" Christopher Robin looked at him very carefully, and shook his head.  "I might," he said,  "Tell Roo to be quick, somebody,"  "I don't mind," said Kanga.  "And you know what I told you yesterday about making faces. If you go on making faces like Piglet's, you will grow up to _look_ like Piglet--and _then_ think how sorry you will be. Now then, into the bath, and don't let me have to speak to you about it again."  "Don't open the mouth, dear, or the soap goes in," said Piglet.  

"Takes all the Life out of them. Remember that another time, all of you. A little Consideration, a little Thought for Others, makes all the difference." Christopher Robin shook his head again.  "Oh, dear!" he said.  "Yes. And we're going to discover a Pole or something. Or was it a Mole? Anyhow we're going to discover it." Piglet began to say that this was because he had just had a bath, and then he thought that perhaps he wouldn't say that, and as he opened his mouth to say something else, Kanga slipped the medicine spoon in, and then patted him on the back and told him that it was really quite a nice taste when you got used to it.  "The who?" said Kanga.  "You never can tell with bees."  "_Hush!_" said Christopher Robin.  "Eat all our what?" Kanga agreed that this was probably what it was, and said that they would have to call it by some name.  "It reminds me of something," said Christopher Robin.  CHAPTER VIII IN WHICH CHRISTOPHER ROBIN LEADS AN EXPOTITION TO THE NORTH POLE 

"As I expected,"  "Well, then," And just when it was decided, Henry Pootel wriggled out of Kanga's arms and jumped to the ground. To his great joy Christopher Robin had left the door open. Never had Henry Pootel Piglet run so fast as he ran then, and he didn't stop running until he had got quite close to his house. But when he was a hundred yards away he stopped running, and rolled the rest of the way home, so as to get his own nice comfortable colour again. . . . So Kanga and Roo stayed in the Forest. And every Tuesday Roo spent the day with his great friend Rabbit, and every Tuesday Kanga spent the day with her great friend Pooh, teaching him to jump, and every Tuesday Piglet spent the day with his great friend Christopher Robin. So they were all happy again. day Pooh had stumped up to the top of the Forest to see if his friend Christopher Robin was interested in Bears at all. At breakfast that morning (a simple meal of marmalade spread lightly over a honeycomb or two) he had suddenly thought of a new song. It began like this:  

"And the only reason for making honey is so as _I_ can eat it." When he had got as far as this, he scratched his head, and thought to himself  "I'll give it to him." He tried singing  "So did I," two or three times, but it didn't seem to help.  "And that's that," he thought,  "Sometimes it is, and sometimes it isn't. You never can tell with paw-marks." So he sang it . . . but it wasn't.  "Oh, help _and_ bother!" he said,  "_How_ did it go, Pooh?" Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear! Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear! I don't much mind if it rains or snows, 'Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice new nose, I don't much care if it snows or thaws, 'Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice clean paws! Sing Ho! for a Bear! Sing Ho! for a Pooh! And I'll have a little something in an hour or two! He was so pleased with this song that he sang it all the way to the top of the Forest,  "It all comes," he thought,  "I'll go. Back directly." So he turned it into a hum instead. Christopher Robin was sitting outside his door, putting on his Big Boots. As soon as he saw the Big Boots, Pooh knew that an Adventure was going to happen, and he brushed the honey off his nose with the back of his paw, and spruced himself up as well as he could, so as to look Ready for Anything.  "You're a real friend," he called out.  

"Meaning me?"  "Oh!" said Pooh.  "As I thought," Pooh sat down, dug his feet into the ground, and pushed hard against Christopher Robin's back, and Christopher Robin pushed hard against his, and pulled and pulled at his boot until he had got it on.  "Never mind, Pooh," said Pooh.  "You're the Best Bear in All the World,"  "Not like Some," said Christopher Robin, as he got up and brushed himself.  "It goes in and out like anything."  "Let me do it for you," said Pooh eagerly.  "Come on!"  "So much for _washing_,"  

"Yes. And we've got to bring Pro--things to eat with us. In case we want to eat them. Now I'm going down to Piglet's. Tell Kanga, will you?" said Pooh.  "Of course, it _was_ rather----" But he didn't really.  "It has."  "Without Pooh," said Pooh again.  "So would I," he asked.  "Which one?" said Christopher Robin carelessly, not being quite sure himself.  "Will there be those little cake things with pink sugar icing?" said Pooh.  "Hallo, Roo!"  "All boats have to have a name,"  "Pass it down to silly old Pooh. It's for Pooh."  

"Just say that again,"  "What I _said_ was, 'First _Issue_ a Reward'." said Pooh happily.  "Aha!" And he stumped off. The first person he met was Rabbit.  "That's right, dear, don't say anything," he said,  "Yes."  "I, Winnie-the-Pooh, will find your tail for you." said Rabbit,  "Yes, but wait a moment. We must be practical. The important bee to deceive is the Queen Bee. Can you see which is the Queen Bee from down there?"  "Go on,"  "Is _that_ better?"  "_Is_ anything the matter?"  

"Oh!"  "You did say balloon? One of those big coloured things you blow up? Gaiety, song-and-dance, here we are and there we are?" said Pooh.  "Now listen all of you,"  "At least, I think I did,"  "My birthday balloon?" said Rabbit.  "We are, are we?" He left Rabbit and hurried down to Piglet's house. The Piglet was sitting on the ground at the door of his house blowing happily at a dandelion, and wondering whether it would be this year, next year, sometime or never. He had just discovered that it would be never, and was trying to remember what  "I think Piglet thought of something at the same time. Suddenly." was, and hoping it wasn't anything nice, when Pooh came up.  "Pooh's found the North Pole," said Pooh excitedly,  "I am,"  "Gaiety. Song-and-dance. Here we go round the mulberry bush." said Piglet anxiously.  

"and if I go on singing it much longer,"  "Oh!"  "that's what it is. And that letter is a 'P,' and so is that, and so is that, and 'P' means 'Pooh,' so it's a very important Missage to me, and I can't read it. I must find Christopher Robin or Owl or Piglet, one of those Clever Readers who can read things, and they will tell me what this missage means. Only I can't swim. Bother!"  "Oh, you're not Piglet," said Piglet earnestly.  "Are they?" In a little while they were all ready at the top of the Forest, and the Expotition started. First came Christopher Robin and Rabbit, then Piglet and Pooh; then Kanga, with Roo in her pocket, and Owl; then Eeyore; and, at the end, in a long line, all Rabbit's friends-and-relations.  "Not mine," explained Rabbit carelessly.  "Thank you, Pooh. If you've quite finished with it."  "The what?" said Eeyore,  "Then we all say '_Aha!_'"  "Well, I wasn't sure. You know how it is in the Forest. One can't have _anybody_ coming into one's house. One has to be _careful_. What about a mouthful of something?" said Owl.  

"Is anybody at home?"  "I'd sooner it was yours than Eeyore's," said Eeyore.  "Oh!" There was a shout from the top of the line.  "Did you see me swimming?" called Christopher Robin.  "Isn't that lovely?" called Pooh and Piglet  "At a quarter to two (Only it was quarter to eleven really), _I_ found the Tail!" called Owl.  "I was talking to Christopher Robin, and he said that a Kanga was Generally Regarded as One of the Fiercer Animals. I am not frightened of Fierce Animals in the ordinary way, but it is well known that, if One of the Fiercer Animals is Deprived of Its Young, it becomes as fierce as Two of the Fiercer Animals. In which case '_Aha!_' is perhaps a _foolish_ thing to say." said Rabbit.  "Well, why not? You don't always want to be miserable on my birthday, do you?" And he hurried off to the front of the Expotition with Christopher Robin.  "But you never can tell," said Eeyore.  "I think," So off they all went to discover the Pole. And as they walked, they chattered to each other of this and that, all except Pooh, who was making up a song.  

"In you go, Roo!" he said to Piglet, when he was ready with it.  "as I was saying when I was interrupted by various Loud Sounds, I feel that----"  "Henry Pootel for short."  "Have you seen Pooh?"  "Just lumping along,"  "A party for Me?"  "It's you!"  "Come on!" Pooh couldn't answer that one, so he began to sing. They all went off to discover the Pole, Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all; It's a Thing you Discover, as I've been tole By Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all. Eeyore, Christopher Robin and Pooh And Rabbit's relations all went too-- And where the Pole was none of them knew. . . . Sing Hey! for Owl and Rabbit and all!  "Hush!" said Christopher Robin turning round to Pooh,  "So it does!"  

"What about a nephew or an uncle or something?" said Pooh turning round quickly to Piglet.  "What are you giving him, Owl?" said Piglet to Kanga.  "the customary procedure in such cases is as follows." said Kanga to Owl, while Roo said  "Good night!" several times to himself very quietly.  "Between, as I was saying, the hours of twelve and twelve five. So, really, dear old Pooh, if you'll excuse me----_What's that?_" said Owl to Eeyore.  "when you're only a Very Small Animal." said Eeyore in a terrible voice to all Rabbit's friends-and-relations, and  "There!" they said hastily to each other all down the line, until it got to the last one of all. And the last and smallest friend-and-relation was so upset to find that the whole Expotition was saying  "_Is_ there any more?" to _him_, that he buried himself head downwards in a crack in the ground, and stayed there for two days until the danger was over, and then went home in a great hurry, and lived quietly with his Aunt ever-afterwards. His name was Alexander Beetle. They had come to a stream which twisted and tumbled between high rocky banks, and Christopher Robin saw at once how dangerous it was.  "Good-bye" he explained,  "Of course it is. The best bear in all the world."  

"Then what is?" whispered Pooh to Piglet.  "As a matter of fact,"  "_Ow!_" said Owl in his superior way,  "as long as _we all three_ say it. As long as we all three say it,"  "It Explains Everything. No Wonder." said Piglet, looking round at him severely,  "How I do love you!"  "The tracks!" said Owl,  "AS--I--WAS--SAYING,"  "Drink up your milk first, dear, and talk afterwards." said Pooh.  "In the Usual Way, if you know what I mean, Pooh," said Piglet,  

"I wish I could jump like that,"  "When you go after honey with a balloon, the great thing is not to let the bees know you're coming. Now, if you have a green balloon, they might think you were only part of the tree, and not notice you, and, if you have a blue balloon, they might think you were only part of the sky, and not notice you, and the question is: Which is most likely?" said Owl.  "Both," explained Piglet. Pooh, who now knew what an Ambush was, said that a gorse-bush had sprung at him suddenly one day when he fell off a tree, and he had taken six days to get all the prickles out of himself.  "Three of us with Piglet." said Owl a little crossly.  "It's a little Anxious," said Pooh. They were climbing very cautiously up the stream now, going from rock to rock, and after they had gone a little way they came to a place where the banks widened out at each side, so that on each side of the water there was a level strip of grass on which they could sit down and rest. As soon as he saw this, Christopher Robin called  "If it _is_ a good morning," and they all sat down and rested.  "you _are_ quite sure about what you said about the winter months?" said Christopher Robin,  "Let me out! I'm Piglet!"  "I shall sing that first line twice, and perhaps if I sing it very quickly, I shall find myself singing the third and fourth lines before I have time to think of them, and that will be a Good Song. Now then:" said Pooh.  "No," said Piglet, getting to work.  

"Yes!" said Pooh, and he got to work too.  "But you don't get honey with balloons!" asked Christopher Robin with his mouth full.  "Handsome bell-rope, isn't it?" said Eeyore.  "It's a funny thing," He looked round at them in his melancholy way.  "It isn't the sort of thing you can do in the afternoon,"  "And how are you?" said Pooh.  "Oh, no, Eeyore," He got up, and looked behind him.  "Honey!"  "How grand!" He moved across to Pooh's place, and began to eat.  "It's a Useful Pot," he went on, as he looked up munching.  

"Why, where's Rabbit?" As soon as he had finished his lunch Christopher Robin whispered to Rabbit, and Rabbit said  "Oh, Kanga," and they walked a little way up the stream together.  "Right over there," said Christopher Robin.  "It's a very particular morning thing, that has to be done in the morning, and, if possible, between the hours of----What would you say the time was?" said Rabbit, looking important.  "It may be that. You never can tell with bees."  "It is doubtful if the necessary dorsal muscles----" said Rabbit, stroking his whiskers.  "Use what?"  "Anyhow," said Christopher Robin carelessly.  "I wonder if you've got such a thing as a balloon about you?" said Rabbit,  "I believe I am,"  

"Come in,"  "Well, there you are, that proves it," said Rabbit,  "What sort of thing?"  "This one."  "How's things?" said Rabbit,  "All three of us?"  "is, _where is it sticking_?" said Christopher Robin. They went back to the others. Piglet was lying on his back, sleeping peacefully. Roo was washing his face and paws in the stream, while Kanga explained to everybody proudly that this was the first time he had ever washed his face himself, and Owl was telling Kanga an Interesting Anecdote full of long words like Encyclopdia and Rhododendron to which Kanga wasn't listening.  "Look, Piglet!" grumbled Eeyore.  "But don't bother about the bread, please."  "_What?_" said Pooh,  

"All of them, except Eeyore?" But we shall never know what Pooh thought, for there came a sudden squeak from Roo, a splash, and a loud cry of alarm from Kanga.  "Another time perhaps." said Eeyore.  "that having got _so_ far, it seems a pity to waste it." cried Rabbit, and he and Christopher Robin came rushing down to the rescue.  "I shall go and look at it. Come on." squeaked Roo from the middle of his pool, and was hurried down a waterfall into the next pool.  "Oh!" called Kanga anxiously.  "You see, what I _meant_ to do," said Roo.  "That's a very good start for a song, but what about the second line?" and down he went over the next waterfall into another pool. Everybody was doing something to help. Piglet, wide awake suddenly, was jumping up and down and making  "What did it look like?" noises; Owl was explaining that in a case of Sudden and Temporary Immersion the Important Thing was to keep the Head Above Water; Kanga was jumping along the bank, saying  "Hallo, Roo," to which Roo, from whatever pool he was in at the moment, was answering  "It's the same thing," Eeyore had turned round and hung his tail over the first pool into which Roo fell, and with his back to the accident was grumbling quietly to himself, and saying,  

"Are bears any good at discovering it?" called Christopher Robin.  "Pooh," called Rabbit. But Pooh was getting something. Two pools below Roo he was standing with a long pole in his paws, and Kanga came up and took one end of it, and between them they held it across the lower part of the pool; and Roo, still bubbling proudly,  "Somebody must have taken it," drifted up against it, and climbed out.  "Oh, and Eeyore," squeaked Roo excitedly, while Kanga scolded him and rubbed him down.  "Oh, yes, yes, that's all right. Well, Pooh? You see what you have to do?" But Christopher Robin wasn't listening. He was looking at Pooh.  "Sure to be a pole," he said,  "I wasn't talking about anything," Pooh looked at the pole in his hands.  "In the Usual Way. Ah!" he said.  "Of course it is. Can't you see? Look at all the presents I have had."  "Next morning." said Christopher Robin solemnly,  

"and Company means Food and Listening-to-Me-Humming and such like. _Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um._"  "He would Suspect," said Pooh. Eeyore was sitting with his tail in the water when they all got back to him.  "I was trying to reach the knocker," he said.  "Hallo, Pooh!"  "Good afternoon, Rabbit. Good afternoon, Piglet." squeaked Roo.  "What do _you_ say, Piglet?"  "No, there wasn't." Eeyore took his tail out of the water, and swished it from side to side.  "Excuse me, Pooh, I didn't. You can't sneeze without knowing it." he said.  "Well, good-bye, if you're sure you won't have any more."  "I generally have a small something about now--about this time in the morning," said Christopher Robin, and he took out his handkerchief and rubbed it up.  

"I saw one once,"  "Yes, yes, of course," said Christopher Robin, rubbing his hardest.  "You don't mind my asking,"  "But if you _don't_,"  "is that you?" said Pooh, coming up to them with his pole.  "Nothing."  "It is because you are a very small animal that you will be Useful in the adventure before us." said Pooh.  "It's just what I think myself, Piglet,"  "Good morning, Eeyore," said Pooh, looking puzzled.  "I don't think I've ever been on one of those. Where are we going to on this Expotition?"  

"Hooray!" said Pooh.  "That's all right," he said. He thought for a little and then suggested helpfully,  "I was going out myself directly."  "Nothing," Pooh looked anxiously at Christopher Robin.  "Not very much." said Christopher Robin.  "Oh! What about?" Pooh looked modestly down.  "Thank you, Pooh, I'm having them," said Eeyore.  "What do we do next?" said Christopher Robin.  "I know."  "Yes, that's what I thought." said Pooh.  

"_That_ was what I wanted to ask you," said Eeyore.  CHAPTER IX IN WHICH PIGLET IS ENTIRELY SURROUNDED BY WATER 

"Isn't it _awful_, Piglet?"  "Am I?" he said. They stuck the pole in the ground, and Christopher Robin tied a message on to it. NORTH POLE DISCOVERED BY POOH POOH FOUND IT. Then they all went home again. And I think, but I am not quite sure, that Roo had a hot bath and went straight to bed. But Pooh went back to his own house, and feeling very proud of what he had done, had a little something to revive himself. and it rained and it rained. Piglet told himself that never in all his life, and _he_ was goodness knows _how_ old--three, was it, or four?--never had he seen so much rain. Days and days and days.  "What _shall_ I do? I _must_ give him _something_." he thought, as he looked out of the window,  "As Usual." And he imagined himself with Pooh, saying,  "Yes," and Pooh saying,  "I _am_ looking, Roo, dear," and Piglet saying,  "Ha ha!" and Pooh saying,  "I see what Eeyore means," It would have been jolly to talk like this, and really, it wasn't much good having anything exciting like floods, if you couldn't share them with somebody. For it was rather exciting. The little dry ditches in which Piglet had nosed about so often had become streams, the little streams across which he had splashed were rivers, and the river, between whose steep banks they had played so happily, had sprawled out of its own bed and was taking up so much room everywhere, that Piglet was beginning to wonder whether it would be coming into _his_ bed soon.  "The balloon?" he said to himself,  

"Now Roo, dear----" It went on raining, and every day the water got a little higher, until now it was nearly up to Piglet's window . . . and still he hadn't done anything.  "I shall call this boat _The Brain of Pooh_," he thought to himself.  "Look at me swimming!" Then suddenly he remembered a story which Christopher Robin had told him about a man on a desert island who had written something in a bottle and thrown it in the sea; and Piglet thought that if he wrote something in a bottle and threw it in the water, perhaps somebody would come and rescue _him_! He left the window and began to search his house, all of it that wasn't under water, and at last he found a pencil and a small piece of dry paper, and a bottle with a cork to it. And he wrote on one side of the paper: HELP! PIGLET (ME) and on the other side: IT'S ME PIGLET, HELP HELP. Then he put the paper in the bottle, and he corked the bottle up as tightly as he could, and he leant out of his window as far as he could lean without falling in, and he threw the bottle as far as he could throw--_splash!_--and in a little while it bobbed up again on the water; and he watched it floating slowly away in the distance, until his eyes ached with looking, and sometimes he thought it was the bottle, and sometimes he thought it was just a ripple on the water which he was following, and then suddenly he knew that he would never see it again and that he had done all that he could do to save himself.  "About Pooh and Me?" he thought,  "Quite the wrong sort. So I should think they would make the wrong sort of honey, shouldn't you?" And then he gave a very long sigh and said,  "the adventure would be impossible." * * * * * When the rain began Pooh was asleep. It rained, and it rained, and it rained, and he slept and he slept and he slept. He had had a tiring day. You remember how he discovered the North Pole; well, he was so proud of this that he asked Christopher Robin if there were any other Poles such as a Bear of Little Brain might discover.  "Quite so." said Christopher Robin,  "And Eeyore," Pooh was very excited when he heard this, and suggested that they should have an Expotition to discover the East Pole, but Christopher Robin had thought of something else to do with Kanga; so Pooh went out to discover the East Pole by himself. Whether he discovered it or not, I forget; but he was so tired when he got home that, in the very middle of his supper, after he had been eating for little more than half-an-hour, he fell fast asleep in his chair, and slept and slept and slept. Then suddenly he was dreaming. He was at the East Pole, and it was a very cold pole with the coldest sort of snow and ice all over it. He had found a bee-hive to sleep in, but there wasn't room for his legs, so he had left them outside. And Wild Woozles, such as inhabit the East Pole, came and nibbled all the fur off his legs to make nests for their Young. And the more they nibbled, the colder his legs got, until suddenly he woke up with an _Ow!_--and there he was, sitting in his chair with his feet in the water, and water all round him! He splashed to his door and looked out. . .  "Not yet," said Pooh.  "My mistake again. I thought you were saying how sorry you were about my tail, being all numb, and could you do anything to help?" So he took his largest pot of honey and escaped with it to a broad branch of his tree, well above the water, and then he climbed down again and escaped with another pot . . . and when the whole Escape was finished, there was Pooh sitting on his branch, dangling his legs, and there, beside him, were ten pots of honey. . . . Two days later, there was Pooh, sitting on his branch, dangling his legs, and there, beside him, were four pots of honey. . . . Three days later, there was Pooh, sitting on his branch, dangling his legs, and there beside him, was one pot of honey. Four days later, there was Pooh . . . And it was on the morning of the fourth day that Piglet's bottle came floating past him, and with one loud cry of  

"So should I," Pooh plunged into the water, seized the bottle, and struggled back to his tree again.  "There's just one thing," said Pooh, as he opened it.  "I wish Pooh were here. It's so much more friendly with two." He took it out and looked at it.  "When you wake up in the morning, Pooh," he said to himself,  "We're going. Only Don't Blame Me." Then he had an idea, and I think that for a Bear of Very Little Brain, it was a good idea. He said to himself:  "Very well, then," So he took his biggest jar, and corked it up.  "If only," he said,  "A lick of honey," And with these words he dropped his boat into the water and jumped in after it. For a little while Pooh and _The Floating Bear_ were uncertain as to which of them was meant to be on the top, but after trying one or two different positions, they settled down with _The Floating Bear_ underneath and Pooh triumphantly astride it, paddling vigorously with his feet. * * * * * Christopher Robin lived at the very top of the Forest. It rained, and it rained, and it rained, but the water couldn't come up to _his_ house. It was rather jolly to look down into the valleys and see the water all round him, but it rained so hard that he stayed indoors most of the time, and thought about things. Every morning he went out with his umbrella and put a stick in the place where the water came up to, and every next morning he went out and couldn't see his stick any more, so he put another stick in the place where the water came up to, and then he walked home again, and each morning he had a shorter way to walk than he had had the morning before. On the morning of the fifth day he saw the water all round him, and knew that for the first time in his life he was on a real island. Which was very exciting. It was on this morning that Owl came flying over the water to say  "So do I," to his friend Christopher Robin.  "Here it is. With--with many happy returns of the day." said Christopher Robin,  

"Yes."  "Who did you think it was?" said Owl.  "No, you don't"  "You didn't exactly _miss_," explained Owl.  "Has _been_ there. He's been sitting on a branch of his tree outside his house with nine pots of honey. But he isn't there now." said Christopher Robin.  "But, on the other hand, Pooh, we must remember,"  "We write a notice to say that we will give a large something to anybody who finds Eeyore's tail."  "If is shall really to flying I never it."  "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie_." explained Owl.  "But is it really your birthday?" said Christopher Robin,  

"Haven't you got _eyes_? _Look_ at me!"  "I shall try to look like a small black cloud. That will deceive them."  "Oh, that's what it's for, is it?"  "Oh!"  "is a sort of Surprise." said Christopher Robin.  "I had been in Pooh's house, or Christopher Robin's house, or Rabbit's house when it began to rain, then I should have had Company all this time, instead of being here all alone, with nothing to do except wonder when it will stop."  "so I shall call mine _The Floating Bear_."  "Thank you, Pooh."  "Then you can't call him Winnie?" said Owl.  "that I thought of giving you Something to put in a Useful Pot." And he flew off. In a little while he was back again.  

"What I said was, 'Is anybody at home?'" he said.  "How do you do,"  "So now,"  "Many happy returns of the day," cried Christopher Robin.  "Good afternoon, Kanga."  "only I didn't like to say anything," said a growly voice behind him.  "About as big as me." They rushed into each other's arms.  "About a week, I should think." asked Christopher Robin, when he was ready to talk again.  "Now then, Pooh, time for a little something." said Pooh proudly.  "Is that it?" With these proud words he gave Christopher Robin the missage.  

"you made a mistake. Somebody did want it." cried Christopher Robin when he had read it.  "Oh! Well, Many happy returns of the day, Eeyore." asked Bear, looking over his shoulder. Christopher Robin read the message aloud.  "or my name's not Winnie-the-Pooh,"  "we could say 'Aha!' even if we hadn't stolen Baby Roo."  "Dear, dear," said Owl, after grave thought.  "Did you see me swimming?"  "That's just how _I_ feel," And, still thinking of something to say, Owl flew off.  "and poor Eeyore is in a Very Sad Condition, because it's his birthday, and nobody has taken any notice of it, and he's very Gloomy--you know what Eeyore is--and there he was, and----What a long time whoever lives here is answering this door." said Christopher Robin,  "Thank you, Christopher Robin. You're the only one who seems to understand about tails. They don't think--that's what the matter with some of these others. They've no imagination. A tail isn't a tail to _them_, it's just a Little Bit Extra at the back."  "Yes, but it isn't quite a full jar," explained Pooh as they walked down to the shore of the island,  

"No, no!"  "We might go in your umbrella,"  "I made up a little piece as I was coming along. It went like this. Er--now let me see----"  "Hallo, Pooh Bear. I can't get this boot on."  "What is it when we're on it?" said Pooh, pointing proudly to _The Floating Bear_. It wasn't what Christopher Robin expected, and the more he looked at it, the more he thought what a Brave and Clever Bear Pooh was, and the more Christopher Robin thought this, the more Pooh looked modestly down his nose and tried to pretend he wasn't.  "Yes." said Christopher Robin sadly.  "I have just been thinking, and I have come to a very important decision. _These are the wrong sort of bees._"  "Terrible and Sad," And then this Bear, Pooh Bear, Winnie-the-Pooh, F.O.P. (Friend of Piglet's), R.C. (Rabbit's Companion), P.D. (Pole Discoverer), E.C. and T.F. (Eeyore's Comforter and Tail-finder)--in fact, Pooh himself--said something so clever that Christopher Robin could only look at him with mouth open and eyes staring, wondering if this was really the Bear of Very Little Brain whom he had known and loved so long.  "I wonder how it is over Christopher Robin's way" said Pooh.  "That wasn't me,"  

"Doesn't it?" said Pooh.  "But this _is_ Me!"  "Dear, dear, how unlucky! You ran too fast, I expect. You didn't hurt yourself, Little Piglet?" said Pooh.  "Neither can I," For suddenly Christopher Robin saw that they might. He opened his umbrella and put it point downwards in the water. It floated but wobbled. Pooh got in. He was just beginning to say that it was all right now, when he found that it wasn't, so after a short drink which he didn't really want he waded back to Christopher Robin. Then they both got in together, and it wobbled no longer.  "I was forgetting _him_." said Christopher Robin, and _The Brain of Pooh_ set sail forthwith in a south-westerly direction, revolving gracefully. You can imagine Piglet's joy when at last the ship came in sight of him. In after-years he liked to think that he had been in Very Great Danger during the Terrible Flood, but the only danger he had really been in was in the last half-hour of his imprisonment, when Owl, who had just flown up, sat on a branch of his tree to comfort him, and told him a very long story about an aunt who had once laid a seagull's egg by mistake, and the story went on and on, rather like this sentence, until Piglet who was listening out of his window without much hope, went to sleep quietly and naturally, slipping slowly out of the window towards the water until he was only hanging on by his toes, at which moment luckily, a sudden loud squawk from Owl, which was really part of the story, being what his aunt said, woke the Piglet up and just gave him time to jerk himself back into safety and say,  CHAPTER X IN WHICH CHRISTOPHER ROBIN GIVES POOH A PARTY, AND WE SAY GOOD-BYE 

"Impossible without Me! _That_ sort of Bear."  "a Heffalump, a Horrible Heffalump!" when--well, you can imagine his joy when at last he saw the good ship, _Brain of Pooh_ (_Captain_, C. Robin; _1st Mate_, P. Bear) coming over the sea to rescue him. Christopher Robin and Pooh again. . . . And that is really the end of the story, and I am very tired after that last sentence, I think I shall stop there. when the sun had come back over the Forest, bringing with it the scent of may, and all the streams of the Forest were tinkling happily to find themselves their own pretty shape again, and the little pools lay dreaming of the life they had seen and the big things they had done, and in the warmth and quiet of the Forest the cuckoo was trying over his voice carefully and listening to see if he liked it, and wood-pigeons were complaining gently to themselves in their lazy comfortable way that it was the other fellow's fault, but it didn't matter very much; on such a day as this Christopher Robin whistled in a special way he had, and Owl came flying out of the Hundred Acre Wood to see what was wanted.  "_Aha!_" said Christopher Robin,  "I don't know."  "We're starting," said Owl.  

"What sort of bush?"  "Do you think you could very kindly lean against me, 'cos I keep pulling so hard that I fall over backwards." said Owl.  "This is Serious,"  "or--or not, as the case may be." said Owl, still being as helpful as possible.  "Are you sure?" Owl tried to think of something very wise to say, but couldn't, so he flew off to tell the others. And the first person he told was Pooh.  "only Pooh doesn't very well, so that's why he likes having it told to him again. Because then it's a real story and not just a remembering." he said,  "Oh, it will, will it?"  "Many happy returns of Eeyore's birthday," said Pooh. And then seeing that Owl expected him to say something else, he said  "_Bother!_" Owl felt that it was rather beneath him to talk about little cake things with pink sugar icing, so he told Pooh exactly what Christopher Robin had said, and flew off to Eeyore.  "_Aha!_" thought Pooh to himself.  

"I will." And he began to wonder if all the other animals would know that it was a special Pooh Party, and if Christopher Robin had told them about _The Floating Bear_ and the _Brain of Pooh_ and all the wonderful ships he had invented and sailed on, and he began to think how awful it would be if everybody had forgotten about it, and nobody quite knew what the party was for; and the more he thought like this, the more the party got muddled in his mind, like a dream when nothing goes right. And the dream began to sing itself over in his head until it became a sort of song. It was an ANXIOUS POOH SONG. 3 Cheers for Pooh! (_For Who?_) For Pooh-- (_Why what did he do?_) I thought you knew; He saved his friend from a wetting! 3 Cheers for Bear! (_For where?_) For Bear-- He couldn't swim, But he rescued him! (_He rescued who?_) Oh, listen, do! I am talking of Pooh-- (_Of who?_) Of Pooh! (_I'm sorry I keep forgetting_). Well, Pooh was a Bear of Enormous Brain (_Just say it again!_) Of enormous brain-- (_Of enormous what?_) Well, he ate a lot, And I don't know if he could swim or not, But he managed to float On a sort of boat (_On a sort of what?_) Well, a sort of pot-- So now let's give him three hearty cheers (_So now let's give him three hearty whiches?_) And hope he'll be with us for years and years, And grow in health and wisdom and riches! 3 Cheers for Pooh! (_For who?_) For Pooh-- 3 Cheers for Bear! (_For where?_) For Bear-- 3 Cheers for the wonderful Winnie-the-Pooh! (_Just tell me, somebody_--WHAT DID HE DO?) While this was going on inside him, Owl was talking to Eeyore.  "I gave him a box of paints to paint things with." said Owl,  "I'm giving this to Eeyore,"  "How?" said Eeyore.  "No better from _this_ side. But nobody minds. Nobody cares. Pathetic, that's what it is."  "No,"  "I expect so. You see, at any moment----"  "I didn't hurt him when I shot him, did I?"  "Pooh,"  "How Like Them," Eeyore shook his head slowly.  

"and I expect there's an East Pole and a West Pole, though people don't like talking about them."  "Ah, then you'll be all right," said Owl, getting quite fussy.  "Now let me see,"  "Would they?"  "Did I miss?"  "Roo's fallen in!"  "A mistake, no doubt, but still, I shall come. Only don't blame _me_ if it rains." said Owl sulkily.  "I was beginning to get anxious. I have discovered that the bees are now definitely Suspicious." said Eeyore.  "Nobody." But it didn't rain. Christopher Robin had made a long table out of some long pieces of wood, and they all sat round it. Christopher Robin sat at one end, and Pooh sat at the other, and between them on one side were Owl and Eeyore and Piglet, and between them on the other side were Rabbit, and Roo and Kanga. And all Rabbit's friends and relations spread themselves about on the grass, and waited hopefully in case anybody spoke to them, or dropped anything, or asked them the time. It was the first party to which Roo had ever been, and he was very excited. As soon as ever they had sat down he began to talk.  "that Rabbit might never be able to use his front door again. And I should _hate_ that," he squeaked.  

"It isn't a fish, it's a bird," said Pooh. Roo jumped up and down in his seat for a little while and then began again.  "And it comes out!" he squeaked. Piglet waved a paw at him, being too busy to say anything.  "Bother!" said Roo. Eeyore nodded gloomily at him.  "No," he said. Roo looked to see if it didn't, and it didn't, so he said  "I'm so sorry," in a kindly way, and went on telling Christopher Robin about an accident which had nearly happened to a friend of his whom Christopher Robin didn't know, and Kanga said to Roo,  "Yes, _I_ remember," So Roo, who was drinking his milk, tried to say that he could do both at once . . . and had to be patted on the back and dried for quite a long time afterwards. When they had all nearly eaten enough, Christopher Robin banged on the table with his spoon, and everybody stopped talking and was very silent, except Roo who was just finishing a loud attack of hiccups and trying to look as if it was one of Rabbit's relations.  "What about me?" said Christopher Robin,  "Because my spelling is Wobbly. It's good spelling but it Wobbles, and the letters get in the wrong places. Would _you_ write 'A Happy Birthday' on it for me?" Then he felt about a little and whispered,  "Yes," While he was looking, Eeyore coughed in an impressive way and began to speak.  "I've brought you a little present," he said,  

"it is nearly Luncheon Time."  "And imitating Piglet's voice too! So clever of him," said Roo accidentally.  "And Owl--and then all of a sudden----" said Kanga reproachfully.  "Good morning, Little Piglet," asked Roo, a little surprised.  "I believe you're right." Piglet whispered to Pooh.  "What I say," said Pooh rather dolefully.  "Attached to it,"  "Balloons are much too big to go into Pots. What you do with a balloon is, you hold the ballon----"  "Pooh!" said Piglet.  "Some can," said Pooh.  

"Yes, you did, Owl." said Roo again.  "The only thing," said Eeyore loudly and sternly,  "Fifteen."  "Then there's only one thing to be done," cried Christopher Robin excitedly.  "but what colour was this balloon when it--when it _was_ a balloon?"  "All right, haycorns." said Eeyore.  "Is this it?"  "No," said Eeyore.  "If you ask me----" Nobody was listening, for they were all saying  "I don't."  

"My balloon?"  "birthday."  "Hallo!" and other helpful remarks of this sort. And of course Pooh was opening it as quickly as ever he could, but without cutting the string, because you never know when a bit of string might be Useful. At last it was undone. When Pooh saw what it was, he nearly fell down, he was so pleased. It was a Special Pencil Case. There were pencils in it marked  "what I _meant_ to do----" for Bear, and pencils marked  "It has been raining," for Helping Bear, and pencils marked  "Not at this time of year," for Brave Bear. There was a knife for sharpening the pencils, and india-rubber for rubbing out anything which you had spelt wrong, and a ruler for ruling lines for the words to walk on, and inches marked on the ruler in case you wanted to know how many inches anything was, and Blue Pencils and Red Pencils and Green Pencils for saying special things in blue and red and green. And all these lovely things were in little pockets of their own in a Special Case which shut with a click when you clicked it. And they were all for Pooh.  "I wish you would bring it out here, and walk up and down with it, and look up at me every now and then, and say 'Tut-tut, it looks like rain.' I think, if you did that, it would help the deception which we are practising on these bees." said Pooh.  "Oh!" said everybody else except Eeyore.  "It was he who wrote the ones on my front door for me. Did you see them, Pooh?" growled Pooh. But Eeyore was saying to himself,  "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie._" Later on, when they had all said  

"I had a Very Important Missage sent me in a bottle, and owing to having got some water in my eyes, I couldn't read it, so I brought it to you. On my boat." and  "You ought to write '_A Happy Birthday_' on it." to Christopher Robin, Pooh and Piglet walked home thoughtfully together in the golden evening, and for a long time they were silent.  "They might or they might not," said Piglet at last,  "HB"  "TRESPASSERS W" said Pooh.  "I thought it ought to be useful. I just picked it up."  "Look at me swimming," said Piglet. Pooh nodded thoughtfully.  "Are you _sure_ you're all right, Roo dear?" he said. * * * * *  asked Christopher Robin.   

    said Christopher Robin. He gave a deep sigh, picked his bear up by the leg and walked off to the door, trailing Winnie-the-Pooh behind him. At the door he turned and said   I said.   